ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Executive Overview of Results

Below are our key financial results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Income from operations was $2.8 billion.

•Other income (expense), net, was $1.4 billion.

•Effective tax rate was 24%.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Operating cash flow was $10.1 billion.

•Capital expenditures were $5.5 billion.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Information about Segments

We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.

Our reported segments are:

•Google – Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Commerce, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. 

•Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, Chronicle, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 

In Q1 2018, Nest joined forces with Google’s hardware team. Consequently, the financial results of Nest have been reported in the Google segment, with Nest revenues reflected in Google other revenues. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation. Consolidated financial results are not affected.

Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. 

33

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Revenues

The following table presents our revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Google segment

The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Use of Monetization Metrics

When assessing our advertising revenues performance, historically we presented the percentage change in the number of paid clicks and cost-per-click for both our Google properties and our Google Network Members’ properties (Network) revenues. As our impression-based revenues have become a more significant driver of Network revenues growth, the percentage change in paid clicks and cost-per-click cover less of our total Network revenues. As a result, in Q1 2018, we transitioned our Network revenue metrics from the percentage change in paid clicks and cost-per-click to the percentage change in impressions and cost-per-impression. Click-based revenues generated by our Network business are included in impression-based metrics, so that these metrics cover nearly all of our Network business. The monetization metrics for Google properties revenues remain unchanged.

Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; and viewed YouTube engagement ads. Impressions for our Google Network Members' properties include impressions displayed to users served on Google Network Members' properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, and DoubleClick AdExchange. 

Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.

Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.

As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks on our Google properties and the number of impressions on Google Network Members’ properties and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity on our Google properties and the revenues generated by impression activity on Google Network Members’ properties.

34

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including:

•advertiser competition for keywords;

•changes in advertising quality or formats;

•changes in device mix;

•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;

•fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;

•general economic conditions;

•growth rates of revenues within Google properties;

•seasonality; and

•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.

Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels, changes in our product mix, increasing competition, query growth rates, our investments in new business strategies, shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues, and the evolution of the online advertising market. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.

Google properties

The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions, unaudited), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues that are generated on:

•Google search properties which includes revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.; and

•Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube.

Our Google properties revenues increased $4,837 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. We also experienced growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising, as well as growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery. Additionally, the growth was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 

Our Google properties revenues increased $9,432 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. We also experienced growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery, as well as growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising. Additionally, the growth was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 

The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to growth in YouTube engagement ads, and to a lesser extent, increases in mobile search queries, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our 

35

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms. Cost-per-click was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.

Google Network Members' properties

The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions, unaudited) and changes in our impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in:

•AdMob;

•AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc.); and

•DoubleClick AdExchange.

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $578 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018.The growth was primarily driven by strength in both AdMob and programmatic advertising buying as well as the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $1,214 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018.The growth was primarily driven by strength in both programmatic advertising buying and AdMob as well as the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. These increases were offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses.

The impressions from the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were relatively unchanged, with growth in both AdMob and programmatic advertising buying offset by a decrease from our traditional AdSense for Content business due to ongoing product changes. The increases in cost-per-impression were primarily due to ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery and were also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.

Google other revenues

The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

•Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;

•Google Cloud offerings; and

•Hardware.

Our Google other revenues increased $1,184 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018 and increased $2,331 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months 

36

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

ended June 30, 2018. The growth was primarily driven by revenues from Google Cloud offerings, revenues from Google Play, largely relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers), and hardware sales.

Other Bets

The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from internet and TV services as well as licensing and R&D services.

Our Other Bets revenues increased $48 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The growth was primarily driven by revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services and sales of Access internet and TV services.

Our Other Bets revenues increased $66 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The growth was primarily driven by revenues from sales of Access internet and TV services and revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services.

Revenues by Geography

The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers (unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the amounts of revenues by geography, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth

The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably affected as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably affected as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our international revenues are also favorably affected by net hedging gains and unfavorably affected by net hedging losses.

We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.

Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.

Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.

37

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.

The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our EMEA revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by hedging losses, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to certain currencies, including the Euro and British pound. 

Our revenues from APAC for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to certain currencies including the Japanese yen, South 

38

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Korean won, and Thai baht. Our revenues from APAC for the six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by hedging losses. The foreign exchange effect was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to certain currencies including the Japanese yen, Australian dollar, South Korean won, and Thai baht.

Our revenues from Other Americas for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were unfavorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Brazilian real. Our revenues from Other Americas for the six months ended June 30, 2018 were unfavorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates and hedging losses. The foreign exchange effect was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to certain currencies, including the Brazilian real and Argentine peso, partially offset by the effect of the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso.

Costs and Expenses

Cost of Revenues

Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. 

The cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.

Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:

•Amortization of certain intangible assets;

•Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);

•Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions; 

•Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and

•Inventory related costs for hardware we sell. 

39

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Revenues include hedging gains (losses) which affect TAC rates.

Cost of revenues increased $3,510 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was due to increases in TAC and other cost of revenues of $1,329 million and $2,181 million, respectively. Cost of revenues increased $7,182 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was due to increases in TAC and other cost of revenues of $2,988 million and $4,194 million, respectively. 

 The increase in TAC to distribution partners from the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was a result of an increase in Google properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in the Google properties TAC rate was driven by changes in partner agreements and the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are channeled through paid access points.

The increase in TAC to Google Network Members from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018 was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues offset by a decrease in the associated TAC rate. The decrease in the Network Members TAC rate from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a shift to lower TAC products within programmatic advertising buying. The decrease was offset by the ongoing shift in advertising buying to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC. 

The increase in TAC to Google Network Members from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in the Network Members TAC rate from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 was driven by the ongoing shift in advertising buying to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC.

 The increase in the aggregate TAC rate from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018 was a result of an increase in Google properties TAC rate, partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties. The increase in the aggregate TAC rate from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 was a result of increases in Google properties and Google Network Members' properties TAC rates, partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties.

40

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

The increase in other cost of revenues from the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was due to an increase in data center and other operations costs, which was affected by increased allocations primarily from general and administrative expenses, and content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube. In addition, there was an increase in hardware related costs.

We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in future periods based on a number of factors, including the following:

•Google Network Members TAC rates, which are affected by the ongoing shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC;

•Google properties TAC rates, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;

•Growth rates of expenses associated with our data centers and other operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs;

•Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, whose costs of revenues are generally higher in relation to our advertising revenues; and

•Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties.

Research and Development

The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

•Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services; and

•Depreciation and equipment-related expenses.

R&D expenses increased $942 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $723 million, largely resulting from a 22% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $142 million.

R&D expenses increased $2,039 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $1,474 million, largely resulting from a 19% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $429 million.

We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.

Sales and Marketing

The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

•Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and

•Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $883 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $360 million, largely resulting from an 11% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $299 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our Cloud offerings and the Google Assistant, and an increase in professional services fees of $138 million primarily due to additional outsourced services. 

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1,843 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in dollar amount was due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $728 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our Cloud offerings, the Google Assistant, and hardware products. In addition, there was an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $693 million, largely resulting from an 8% increase in headcount, and an increase in professional services fees of $252 million primarily due to additional outsourced services.

We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.

General and Administrative

The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

•Amortization of certain intangible assets;

•Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations; 

•Depreciation and equipment-related expenses; and

•Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.

General and administrative expenses increased $302 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $327 million, largely resulting from accrued performance fees related to gains on securities. In addition, there was an increase in professional services fees of $90 million. The increases were offset by reduced allocations (with a corresponding net increase primarily in cost of revenues).

General and administrative expenses increased $536 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $942 million, largely resulting from accrued performance fees related to gains on securities. The increase was offset by reduced allocations (with a corresponding net increase primarily in cost of revenues).

We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.

European Commission Fines

In June 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.42 billion ($2.74 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2017.

42

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

In July 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google's Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.34 billion ($5.07 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2018. 

Please refer to Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.

Other Income (Expense), Net

The following table presents other income (expense), net (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income (expense), net, increased $1,163 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by gains on equity securities.

Other income (expense), net, increased $4,454 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by gains on equity securities.

We expect other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in dollar amount and percentage of revenues in future periods as it is largely driven by market dynamics. Marketable and non-marketable equity security investments are remeasured as equity values increase and decrease and contribute to volatility of other income (expense), net. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and sporadically for non-marketable equity securities. For additional information about equity investments, please see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Provision for Income Taxes

The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our provision for income taxes increased $167 million from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to an increase in income before income taxes excluding the non-deductible EC fines, offset by the effects of the Tax Act that became effective in 2018. 

Our effective tax rate increased from the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the larger EC fine in 2018 as compared to 2017, neither of which are tax deductible, benefits recognized in 2017 from the resolution of a multi-year audit in the U.S. that did not recur in 2018, partially offset by the effects of the Tax Act, and a release of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to gains on equity securities.

Our provision for income taxes decreased by $84 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to a release of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to gains on equity securities and the effects of the Tax Act, offset by the increase in income before income taxes excluding the non-deductible EC fines.

Our effective tax rate decreased from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease is primarily due to the effects of the Tax Act, and a release of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to gains on equity securities, partially offset by a larger EC fine in 2018 as compared to 2017, neither of which are tax deductible, and benefits recognized in 2017 from the resolution of a multi-year audit in the U.S. that did not recur in 2018.

Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, changes in 

43

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

As of June 30, 2018, we had $102.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid debt instruments of government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public.

In December, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and we recorded a tax liability for the one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings of $10.2 billion, of which $890 million has been paid, and of the remaining balance of $9.3 billion, $873 million and $8.4 billion were presented within “income tax payable, current” and “income tax payable, non-current,” respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018. As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the one-time transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025.

In July 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google's Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.34 billion ($5.07 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2018. We anticipate the fine to be due in October 2018 and we are evaluating payment options that include cash payment and bank guarantees. 

Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2018, we had no commercial paper outstanding. As of June 30, 2018, we have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in February 2021 with no amounts outstanding. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions, and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. 

As of June 30, 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $3.9 billion.

In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion of its Class C capital stock, which was completed during the first quarter of 2018. In January 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased and subsequently retired 3.9 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $4.2 billion.

For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2018, our cash flows were as follows (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.

Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware inventory costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.

44

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers) offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.

Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment; purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable and non-marketable securities; and payments for acquisitions.

Net cash used in investing activities increased from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increases in purchases of property and equipment, including the purchase of the Chelsea Market building, and increases in payments for acquisitions. In addition, there was a decrease in maturities and sales of marketable securities. These changes were offset by a decrease in purchases of marketable securities.

Cash Used in Financing Activities

Cash provided by or used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt.

Net cash used in financing activities increased from the six months ended June 30, 2017 to the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to higher cash payments for repurchases of capital stock and stock-based award activities, offset by lower cash proceeds from the sale of subsidiary shares.

Contractual Obligations

We had short-term and long-term taxes payable of $9.3 billion as of June 30, 2018 related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act. For further information on the Tax Act, see Note 13. In addition, we had long-term taxes payable of $3.2 billion as of June 30, 2018 primarily related to uncertain tax positions, for which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.

Impairment of Securities

We periodically review our debt securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. We also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.

Our equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are carried at fair value or under the measurement alternative with changes recognized in net income upon the adoption of ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date. We review impairment of those equity securities at each reporting period end when there are qualitative indicators that may reduce the carrying value. Once the qualitative indicators are identified and the fair value of the securities are less than carrying value, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.

See Note 1 of Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, see Part I, Item 7, "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. There have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.

45

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

Available Information

Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

46

Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.

ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK