ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal.
We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks (collectively, the “NBCUniversal segments”).
We adopted the updated guidance related to revenue recognition on January 1, 2018 on a full retrospective basis, which required us to reflect the impact of the updated guidance for all periods presented (see Note 7 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements and Note 6 to NBCUniversal’s condensed consolidated financial statements).
Cable Communications Segment
Comcast Cable is one of the nation’s largest providers of video, high-speed Internet, voice, and security and automation services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand; we also provide these and other services to business customers and sell advertising.
As of June 30, 2018, our cable systems had 29.8 million total customer relationships, including 27.6 million residential and 2.2 million business customer relationships, and passed more than 57 million homes and businesses.
Our Cable Communications segment generates revenue primarily from residential and business customers that subscribe to our cable services, which we market individually and as bundled services, and from the sale of advertising.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, our Cable Communications segment generated 61% of our consolidated revenue and 75% of our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA.
NBCUniversal Segments
NBCUniversal is one of the world’s leading media and entertainment companies that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences, and owns and operates theme parks worldwide.
Cable Networks
Our Cable Networks segment consists primarily of a diversified portfolio of cable television networks.
Our cable networks are comprised of our national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content; our regional sports and news networks; our international cable networks; our cable television studio production operations; and our various digital properties.
Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the distribution of our cable network programming to traditional and virtual multichannel video providers; from the sale of advertising on our cable networks and digital properties; from the licensing of our owned programming, including programming from our cable television studio production operations, to cable and broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services; and from the sale of our owned programming on standard-definition digital video discs and Blu-ray discs (together, “DVDs”) and through digital distribution services such as iTunes.
Broadcast Television
Our Broadcast Television segment consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and our various digital properties.
Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on our broadcast networks, owned local broadcast television stations and digital properties; from the licensing of our owned programming by our broadcast television studio production operations to various distribution platforms, including to cable and broadcast networks as well as to subscription video on demand services; from the fees received under retransmission consent agreements and associated fees received from NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations; and from the sale of our owned programming on DVDs and through digital distribution services.
Filmed Entertainment
Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide.
Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names.
Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters, from the licensing of produced and acquired films through various distribution platforms, and from the sale of produced and acquired films on DVDs and through digital distribution services.
Our Filmed Entertainment segment also generates revenue from Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business, the sale of consumer products, the production and licensing of live stage plays, and the distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties.
30
Theme Parks
Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan.
In addition, along with a consortium of Chinese state-owned companies, we are developing a theme park in Beijing, China.
Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks.
Corporate and Other
We are pursuing business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that we launched in the second quarter of 2017 using our virtual network operator rights to provide the service over Verizon’s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots.
We offer the wireless phone service only as part of our bundled service offerings to residential customers that subscribe to our high-speed Internet service within our cable distribution footprint and may in the future also offer wireless phone service to our small business customers on similar terms.
The wireless phone service has success-based working capital requirements, primarily associated with the procurement of handsets, which customers are able to pay for upfront or finance interest-free over 24 months, and other equipment.
Our other business interests consist of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Competition
The results of operations of our reportable business segments are affected by competition, as all of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers.
Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and challenging existing business models.
In particular, consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, which has and likely will continue to reduce the number of our video customers and subscribers to our cable networks even as it makes our high-speed Internet services more valuable to consumers.
In addition, the increasing number of entertainment choices available has intensified audience fragmentation, which has and likely will continue to adversely affect the audience ratings of our cable networks and broadcast television programming.
For additional information on the competition our businesses face, see our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and refer to Item 1: Business and Item 1A: Risk Factors.
Within the Business section, refer to the “Competition” discussion, and within the Risk Factors section, refer to the risk factors entitled “Our businesses currently face a wide range of competition, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively” and “Changes in consumer behavior driven by online distribution platforms for viewing content could adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models.”
Seasonality and Cyclicality
Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations.
In our Cable Communications segment, our results are impacted by the seasonal nature of residential customers receiving our cable services in college and vacation markets.
This generally results in fewer net customer relationship additions in the second quarter of each year.
Revenue in our Cable Communications, Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments is subject to cyclical advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels.
Advertising revenue in the U.S. is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season.
Advertising revenue in the U.S. is also cyclical, with a benefit in even-numbered years due to advertising related to candidates running for political office and issue-oriented advertising.
Revenue in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments fluctuates depending on the timing of when our programming is aired, which typically results in higher advertising revenue in the second and fourth quarters of each year.
Our revenue and operating costs and expenses (comprised of total costs and expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization expense and other operating gains) are cyclical as a result of our periodic broadcasts of major sporting events, such as the Olympic Games, which affect our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments, and the Super Bowl, which affects our Broadcast Television segment.
In particular, our advertising revenue increases due to increased demand for advertising time and our distribution revenue increases in the period of these broadcasts.
Our operating costs and expenses also increase as a result of our production costs for these broadcasts and the amortization of the related rights fees.
Revenue in our Filmed Entertainment segment fluctuates due to the timing, nature and number of films released in movie theaters, on DVDs, and through various other distribution platforms.
Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.
As a result, revenue tends to be seasonal, with increases experienced each year during the summer months and around the holiday season.
Content licensing revenue in our Cable Networks, Broadcast Television and Filmed Entertainment segments also fluctuates due to the timing of when our content is made available to licensees.
31
Revenue in our Theme Parks segment fluctuates with changes in theme park attendance that result from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and weather variations, local entertainment offerings and the opening of new attractions as well as with changes in currency exchange rates.
Our theme parks generally experience peak attendance during the spring holiday period, the summer months when schools are closed and the holiday season.
Consolidated Operating Results
All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts.
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
Percentage changes that are considered not meaningful are denoted with NM.
(a)Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” section on page 42 for additional information, including our definition and our use of Adjusted EBITDA, and for a reconciliation from net income attributable to Comcast Corporation to Adjusted EBITDA.
Consolidated Revenue
Our Cable Communications, Cable Networks, Broadcast Television and Theme Parks segments accounted for the increases in consolidated revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, which were partially offset by decreases in revenue in our Filmed Entertainment segment.
Consolidated revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 included revenue associated with our broadcasts of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics and the 2018 Super Bowl in February 2018.
Revenue for our segments is discussed separately below under the heading “Segment Operating Results.” Revenue for our business development initiatives and other businesses is discussed separately below under the heading “Corporate and Other Results of Operations.”
Consolidated Costs and Expenses
Our Cable Communications, Cable Networks, Broadcast Television and Theme Parks segments accounted for the increases in consolidated operating costs and expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, which were partially offset by decreases in operating costs and expenses in our Filmed Entertainment segment.
Operating costs and expenses for our segments are discussed separately below under the heading “Segment Operating Results.” Operating costs and expenses for our corporate operations, businesses development initiatives and other businesses are discussed separately below under the heading “Corporate and Other Results of Operations.”
32
Consolidated Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increases in both capital expenditures and expenditures for software in our Cable Communications segment in recent years.
We continue to invest in our network capacity and in customer premise equipment, primarily for our X1 platform, cloud DVR technology and wireless gateways.
Certain of these assets have relatively short estimated useful lives, which also contributed to the increase in depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 in our Cable Communications segment.
Consolidated Other Operating Gains
Consolidated other operating gains for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 included $200 million related to the sale of a controlling interest in our arena management-related businesses in Corporate and Other (see Note 9 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements).
Segment Operating Results
Our segment operating results are presented based on how we assess operating performance and internally report financial information.
We use Adjusted EBITDA as the measure of profit or loss for our operating segments.
See Note 2 to both Comcast and NBCUniversal’s condensed consolidated financial statements for our definition of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation from the aggregate amount of Adjusted EBITDA for our reportable business segments to consolidated income before income taxes.
To be consistent with our current management reporting presentation, certain 2017 operating results were reclassified within the Cable Communications segment.
Cable Communications Segment Results of Operations
33
Customer Metrics
Customer metrics are presented based on actual amounts.
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services.
Single product, double product, and triple and quad product customers represent residential customers that subscribe to one, two, or three and four of our cable services, respectively.
For multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”), including buildings located on college campuses, whose residents have the ability to receive additional cable services, such as additional programming choices or our high-definition video (“HD”) or digital video recorder (“DVR”) advanced services, we count and report customers based on the number of potential billable relationships within each MDU.
For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional cable services, the MDU is counted as a single customer.
Residential video and high-speed Internet customers as of June 30, 2018 included prepaid customers totaling approximately 5,000 and 108,000, respectively.
34
Average monthly total revenue per customer relationship for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $153.82 and $153.44, respectively.
Average monthly total revenue per customer relationship for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was $152.74 and $152.33, respectively.
This metric is impacted by rate adjustments and changes in the types and levels of services received by our residential and business services customers, as well as changes in advertising revenue.
While revenue from our residential video, high-speed Internet and voice services are also impacted by changes in the allocation of revenue among services sold in a bundle, the allocation does not impact average monthly total revenue per customer relationship.
Average monthly Adjusted EBITDA per customer relationship for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $63.26 and $62.29, respectively.
Average monthly Adjusted EBITDA per customer relationship for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was $60.99 and $60.61, respectively.
Each of our cable services has a different contribution to operating margin.
We use average monthly Adjusted EBITDA per customer relationship to evaluate the profitability of our customer base across all of our service offerings.
We believe this metric is useful particularly as we continue to focus on growing our higher-margin businesses, including residential high-speed Internet and business services.
Cable Communications Segment—Revenue
Video
Video revenue decreased 1.9% and 1.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017.
The decreases were primarily due to decreases in the number of residential video customers and, to a lesser extent, changes in average video rates.
We have experienced, and expect that we will continue to experience, declines in the number of residential video customers due to competitive pressures, and we expect that our video revenue will continue to decline.
Competition is intense, both from traditional multichannel video providers and from new technologies and distribution platforms for viewing content.
We are responding to this competition through our X1 platform and sales and marketing programs, such as promotions, bundled service offerings and service offerings targeted at specific market segments.
High-Speed Internet
High-speed Internet revenue increased 9.3% and 8.8% and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017.
Increases in the number of residential customers receiving our high-speed Internet services accounted for increases in revenue of 4.4% and 4.6% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The remaining increases in revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily due to changes in average high-speed Internet rates.
Our customer base continues to grow as consumers choose our high-speed Internet services and seek offerings with better speed, coverage and control.
Voice
Voice revenue decreased 3.9% and 3.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to decreases in the number of residential voice customers.
We expect that the number of residential voice customers and voice revenue will continue to decline.
Business Services
Business services revenue increased 11.1% and 11.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017.
The increases were primarily due to increases in the number of customers receiving our small and medium-sized business services offerings.
We believe the increases in the number of business customers are primarily the result of our efforts to gain market share from competitors by offering competitive services and pricing, although the rate of growth in the number of our small business customers may slow as the business matures.
Advertising
Advertising revenue increased 6.4% and 5.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to increases in political advertising revenue.
Excluding political advertising revenue, advertising revenue increased 1.3% and 1.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017.
These increases were primarily due to increases in revenue from our advanced advertising business.
For both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, 4% of our Cable Communications segment advertising revenue was generated from our NBCUniversal segments.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, 4% and 5%, respectively, of our Cable Communications segment advertising revenue was generated from our NBCUniversal segments.
These amounts are eliminated in our condensed consolidated financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.
Other
Other revenue increased 6.9% and 5.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to increases in revenue from our security and automation services and the licensing of our X1 platform to other multichannel video providers.
35
Cable Communications Segment—Operating Costs and Expenses
Programming expenses increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to increases in programming license fees, including retransmission consent fees and sports programming costs.
Technical and product support expenses increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to expenses related to the continued development, deployment and support of our X1 platform, cloud DVR technology and wireless gateways, and continued growth in business services and security and automation services.
Customer service expenses decreased slightly for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017.
Customer service expenses decreased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to lower personnel costs as a result of reduced call volumes.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased slightly for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to an increase in spending associated with attracting new customers and encouraging existing customers to add additional or higher-tier services, including advertising expenses associated with the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics.
Franchise and other regulatory fees decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to decreases in the revenue to which the fees apply.
Other costs and expenses decreased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to decreases in administrative costs, which were partially offset by increases in costs to support our advertising sales business.
Other costs and expenses remained flat for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017.
Cable Communications Segment—Operating Margin
Our Cable Communications segment operating margin is Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
The most significant operating costs and expenses for our Cable Communications segment are the programming expenses we incur to provide content to our video customers, which increased 3.3% and 3.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
We will continue to focus on growing our higher-margin businesses, particularly residential high-speed Internet and business services, and on overall operating cost management.
Our Cable Communications segment operating margin for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was 41.1% and 39.9%, respectively.
Our Cable Communications segment operating margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was 40.6% and 39.8%, respectively.
NBCUniversal Segments Results of Operations
36
Percentage changes that are considered not meaningful are denoted with NM.
Cable Networks Segment Results of Operations
37
Cable Networks Segment—Revenue
Cable Networks revenue increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increases in distribution revenue, content licensing and other revenue and advertising revenue.
The increase in distribution revenue was primarily due to increases in the contractual rates charged under distribution agreements and the timing of contract renewals, which were partially offset by a moderating decline in the number of subscribers at our cable networks.
The increase in content licensing and other revenue was primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to higher prices for advertising units sold, which was partially offset by the impact of continued declines in audience ratings at our networks.
Cable Networks revenue increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increases in distribution revenue, advertising revenue and content licensing and other revenue.
The increase in distribution revenue was primarily due to $236 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics.
The increase in distribution revenue was also due to increases in the contractual rates charged under distribution agreements and the timing of contract renewals, which were partially offset by a moderating decline in the number of subscribers at our cable networks.
The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to $142 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics.
The increase in advertising revenue was also due to higher prices for advertising units sold, which was partially offset by the impact of continued declines in audience ratings at our networks.
The increase in content licensing and other revenue was primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
Excluding $378 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics, Cable Networks segment revenue increased 7.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
For both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, 14% of our Cable Networks segment revenue was generated from our Cable Communications segment.
For both the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, 15% of our Cable Networks segment revenue was generated from our Cable Communications segment.
These amounts are eliminated in our condensed consolidated financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.
Cable Networks Segment—Operating Costs and Expenses
Operating costs and expenses increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to increases in other operating and administrative costs and programming and production costs.
The increase in other operating and administrative costs was primarily due to costs related to our various digital properties, employee-related costs and costs related to our international channels.
The increase in programming and production costs was primarily due to our continued investment in original programming and an increase in studio production costs.
Operating costs and expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to increases in programming and production costs and other operating and administrative costs.
The increase in programming and production costs was driven by our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics, as well as costs related to our continued investment in original programming and an increase in studio production costs.
The increase in other operating and administrative costs was primarily due to employee-related costs and costs of our various digital properties and international channels.
Broadcast Television Segment Results of Operations
38
Broadcast Television Segment—Revenue
Broadcast Television revenue increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increases in advertising revenue and distribution and other revenue, which were partially offset by a decrease in content licensing revenue.
The increase in advertising revenue was primarily driven by revenue associated with Telemundo's broadcast of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia and higher rates, which was partially offset by the impact of continued declines in audience ratings.
The increase in distribution and other revenue was primarily due to increases in fees recognized under our retransmission consent agreements.
The decrease in content licensing revenue was primarily due to timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
Broadcast Television revenue increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increases in advertising revenue and distribution and other revenue, which were partially offset by a decrease in content licensing revenue.
The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to $1.1 billion of revenue associated with our broadcasts of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics and 2018 Super Bowl.
The increase in advertising revenue was also due to revenue associated with Telemundo’s broadcast of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia and higher rates, which was partially offset by the impact of continued declines in audience ratings.
The increase in distribution and other revenue was primarily due to increases in fees recognized under our retransmission consent agreements.
The increase in distribution and other revenue was also due to $112 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics.
The decrease in content licensing revenue was primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
Excluding $1.2 billion of revenue associated with our broadcasts of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics and the 2018 Super Bowl, revenue increased 5.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Broadcast Television Segment—Operating Costs and Expenses
Operating costs and expenses increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher programming and production costs associated with Telemundo's broadcast of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia.
Operating costs and expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher programming and production costs.
The increase in programming and production costs was primarily due to costs associated with our broadcasts of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics and the 2018 Super Bowl.
39
Filmed Entertainment Segment Results of Operations
Filmed Entertainment Segment—Revenue
Filmed Entertainment revenue decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to decreases in theatrical revenue and home entertainment revenue.
The decreases in theatrical revenue were primarily due to the timing of releases and the strong performance of prior year releases, including The Fate of the Furious, which were partially offset by successful releases in the current year, including Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom.
The decreases in home entertainment revenue were primarily due to higher sales of 2017 releases, which were partially offset by sales of 2018 releases.
Filmed Entertainment Segment—Operating Costs and Expenses
Operating costs and expenses decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to decreases in programming and production costs related to a higher number of releases in the prior year periods.
40
Theme Parks Segment Results of Operations
Theme Parks Segment—Revenue
Theme Parks revenue increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to increases in guest spending, driven by increased ticket prices and merchandise, food, and beverage spend.
The increase in Theme Parks revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was partially offset by the timing of spring holidays as compared to the prior year period.
Theme Parks Segment—Operating Costs and Expenses
Operating costs and expenses increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to higher operating costs related to Volcano Bay in Orlando and newer attractions, including the opening of the Fast & Furious - Supercharged attraction in Orlando, DreamWorks Theatre featuring Kung Fu Panda attraction in Hollywood, and Freeze Ray Sliders attraction at Minion Park in Japan.
Corporate and Other Results of Operations
Corporate and Other—Revenue
Other revenue primarily relates to revenue from business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that launched in 2017, and from Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Corporate and Other revenue increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to revenue associated with our wireless phone service, which was partially offset by decreases in revenue due to the sale of a business in the third quarter of 2017 and the sale of a controlling interest in our arena management-related businesses in the second quarter of 2018.
Corporate and Other—Operating Costs and Expenses
Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses primarily include overhead, personnel costs, the costs of other business development initiatives, including our wireless phone service, and operating costs and expenses associated with Comcast Spectacor.
Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to expenses associated with our wireless phone service, which were partially offset by declines in operating costs and expenses due
41
to the sale a business in the third quarter of 2017 and the sale of a controlling interest in our arena management-related businesses in the second quarter of 2018.
Consolidated Interest Expense
Interest expense increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to increases in our debt outstanding.
Consolidated Investment and Other Income (Loss), Net
Equity in Net Income (Losses) of Investees, Net
The changes in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 were primarily related to our equity method investments in Atairos and Hulu.
The losses at Hulu were primarily due to higher programming and marketing costs.
The equity in net income (losses) of Atairos and Hulu for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are presented in the table below.
Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities, Net
The changes in realized and unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities, net for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 were primarily due to the adoption of updated accounting guidance for our marketable equity securities, which primarily relates to our investment in Snap (see Note 9).
Other Income (Loss), Net
Other income (loss), net for the six months ended June 30, 2018 included a $64 million pretax gain related to the sale of our investment in The Weather Channel cable network (see Note 9).
Consolidated Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 reflects an effective income tax rate that differs from the federal statutory rate primarily due to state and foreign income taxes and adjustments associated with uncertain tax positions.
The decreases in income tax expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 were primarily due to the effects of the 2017 Tax Act, which were partially offset by higher taxable income from operations.
The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, effective January 1, 2018.
We also recognized an income tax benefit of $128 million during the first quarter of 2018 related to the enactment of additional federal tax legislation in 2018.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses as well as to assist in the evaluation of underlying trends in our businesses.
This measure eliminates the significant level of noncash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of certain of our businesses and from intangible assets recognized in business combinations.
It is also unaffected by our capital and tax structures, and by our investment activities, including the results of entities that we do not consolidate, as our management excludes these results when evaluating our operating performance.
Our management and Board of Directors use this financial measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of our operating segments and to
42
allocate resources and capital to our operating segments.
It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs.
Additionally, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors because it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other companies in our industries, although our measure of consolidated Adjusted EBITDA may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
We define consolidated Adjusted EBITDA as net income attributable to Comcast Corporation before net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock, income tax expense, investment and other income (loss), net, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, and other operating gains and losses (such as impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on the sale of long-lived assets), if any.
From time to time we may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA the impact of certain events, gains, losses or other charges (such as significant legal settlements) that affect the period-to-period comparability of our operating performance.
We reconcile consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to Comcast Corporation.
This measure should not be considered a substitute for operating income, net income, net income attributable to Comcast Corporation, or net cash provided by operating activities that we have reported in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation from Net Income Attributable to Comcast Corporation to Adjusted EBITDA
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our businesses generate significant cash flows from operating activities.
We believe that we will be able to continue to meet our current and long-term liquidity and capital requirements, including fixed charges, through our cash flows from operating activities; existing cash, cash equivalents and investments; available borrowings under our existing credit facilities; and our ability to obtain future external financing.
We anticipate that we will continue to use a substantial portion of our cash flows in repaying our debt obligations, funding our capital expenditures, investing in business opportunities and returning capital to shareholders.
On July 11, 2018, we announced an increased cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Sky plc, which has been recommended by the Sky Independent Committee.
See Note 6 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the offer, including the related financing agreements.
On July 19, 2018, we announced the withdrawal of our proposed offer for Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
We entered into an agreement with a consortium of Chinese state-owned companies to build and operate a Universal theme park and resort in Beijing, China (“Universal Beijing Resort”).
We own a 30% interest in Universal Beijing Resort and the construction will be funded through a combination of debt financing and equity contributions from the investors in accordance with their equity interests.
The construction will take place over several years and debt financing and equity contributions will occur on a periodic basis.
See Note 6 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on Universal Beijing Resort, including the debt financing agreements.
43
Operating Activities
Components of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
The variance in changes in operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily related to the timing of programming spend and receipt of receivables and our broadcast of the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics, which were partially offset by our broadcast of the 2018 Super Bowl.
The decrease in income tax payments for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to federal income tax overpayments of $871 million related to the 2017 tax year that were applied to reduce tax payments in the current year, as well as a reduction in the federal income tax rate and additional depreciation deductions allowed under the 2017 Tax Act.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of capital expenditures, cash paid for intangible assets and purchases of investments.
Capital expenditures decreased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in spending by our Cable Communications segment on customer premise equipment, which was partially offset by continued investments in scalable infrastructure to increase network capacity and increased investments in line extensions primarily for the expansion of business services.
NBCUniversal capital expenditures increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to an increase in spending at our Universal theme parks and the timing of infrastructure spending.
Purchases of investments for the six months ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of our cash capital contributions of $227 million to Hulu and $112 million to Atairos.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of repayments of debt, repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase program and employee plans, and dividend payments, which were partially offset by proceeds from borrowings.
We have made, and may from time to time in the future make, optional repayments on our debt obligations, which may include repurchases or exchanges of our outstanding public notes and debentures, depending on various factors, such as market conditions.
See Note 5 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on our financing activities, including details of our debt repayments and borrowings.
Available Borrowings Under Credit Facilities
We also maintain significant availability under our lines of credit and commercial paper programs to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.
As of June 30, 2018, amounts available under our consolidated revolving credit facilities, net of amounts outstanding under our commercial paper programs and outstanding letters of credit, totaled $7.5 billion, which included $573 million available under the NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility.
Share Repurchases and Dividends
Effective January 1, 2017, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program authorization to $12 billion, which does not have an expiration date.
Under the authorization, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in private transactions.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased a total of 77 million shares of our Class A common stock for $2.75 billion.
We expect to make at least $2.25 billion more in repurchases under this authorization during the remainder of 2018, although the actual repurchase amount may differ depending on market and other conditions.
44
In addition, we paid $248 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to employee taxes associated with the administration of our share-based compensation plans.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors approved a 21% increase in our dividend to $0.76 per share on an annualized basis.
In May 2018, our Board of Directors approved our second quarter dividend of $0.19 per share to be paid in July 2018.
We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.
Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates
The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities.
We base our judgments on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making estimates about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
For a more complete discussion of the accounting judgments and estimates that we have identified as critical in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, please refer to our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 7 to Comcast’s condensed consolidated financial statements and see Note 6 to NBCUniversal’s condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information related to recent accounting pronouncements.
ITEM 3: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK