ITEM 1A.
Risk Factors
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides a safe harbor for “forward-looking statements” made by or on behalf of the Company.
We may from time to time make written or oral statements that are “forward-looking,” including statements contained in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in reports to our shareholders.
All forward-looking statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update its disclosure relating to forward-looking matters.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company’s control, including: changes in domestic and global economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer preferences; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; health concerns; international, political or military developments; and technological developments.
Such developments may affect entertainment, travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company’s theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, demand for our products and services, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits, performance of some or all company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products and the pending transaction with 21CF.
Additional factors are discussed in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the period ended December 30, 2017, in each case under the Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”
Risk Factors Related to the Acquisition of Twenty-First Century Fox (“21CF”)
Risks related to the acquisition of 21CF were discussed in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 30, 2017, under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” In light of changes in the terms of the transaction, we are updating the risk relating to indebtedness of the Company following the transaction as follows.
Our consolidated indebtedness will increase substantially following completion of the 21CF Acquisition.
This increased level of indebtedness and the incurrence of additional debt to pay a portion of the 21CF merger consideration will significantly increase our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements, each of which could adversely affect the Company, including by decreasing its business flexibility.
Disney’s consolidated indebtedness as of June 30, 2018 was approximately $23.7 billion.
Upon completion of the 21CF Acquisition, Disney will assume an estimated fair value of approximately $17.1 billion of additional outstanding net debt of 21CF (approximately $23.9 billion of debt less approximately $6.8 billion in cash) if 21CF’s all-cash offer for the approximately 61% interest in Sky not currently held by 21CF (the “Sky Acquisition”) is not completed or an estimated fair value of $49.3 billion of additional outstanding net debt of 21CF (approximately $51.1 billion of debt less approximately $1.8 billion in cash) if the Sky Acquisition is completed at an offer price of £14.00 per share.
We expect to fund the cash portion of the consideration in the 21CF Acquisition (approximately $35.7 billion) upon completion of the 21CF Acquisition through the issuance of senior unsecured notes and/or commercial paper.
If such contemplated financing is unavailable prior to or upon completion, a 364-day unsecured bridge term loan facility will be provided by a five bank syndicate totaling $35.7 billion.
Following the completion of this financing transaction, it is expected that the combined company will have approximately $109.6 billion of short and long-term debt and interest expense of approximately $3.3 billion per year.
The increased indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.
In addition, the amount of cash required to pay interest on the increased indebtedness levels will increase following completion of the 21CF Acquisition, and thus the demands on our cash resources will be greater than prior to completion of the 21CF Acquisition.
The increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the 21CF Acquisition could also reduce funds available for capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
Our funds on hand will be further constrained by the issuance of shares of common stock in the 21CF Acquisition, because of dividend payments on common stock.
Following consummation of the 21CF Acquisition, our corporate or debt-specific credit rating could be downgraded, which may increase our borrowing costs or give rise to a need to refinance existing indebtedness.
If a ratings downgrade occurs,
54
we may need to refinance existing debt or be subject to higher borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants when we incur new debt in the future, which could reduce profitability and diminish operational flexibility.
We may encounter difficulty or high costs associated with financing the cash portion of the consideration in the 21CF Acquisition.
We expect to fund the cash portion of the consideration in the 21CF Acquisition (approximately $35.7 billion) upon completion of the 21CF Acquisition through the issuance of senior unsecured notes and/or commercial paper.
If such contemplated financing is unavailable prior to or upon completion, a 364-day unsecured bridge term loan facility will be provided by a five bank syndicate totaling $35.7 billion.
Our ability to obtain additional debt financing will be subject to various factors, including market conditions, operating performance and our ability to incur additional debt.
Depending on these factors, the terms upon which debt financing or debt offerings are available to us may be less favorable to us than we had anticipated.
We will be required to divest the 21CF regional sports networks (the “21CF RSNs”) and we may not be able to negotiate such divestitures expeditiously or on favorable terms.
On June 27, 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) submitted a proposed final judgment resolving a complaint it filed the same day to remedy potential competitive concerns regarding our acquisition of the 21CF RSNs.
Pursuant to the DOJ’s proposed final judgment, we are required to hold separate and divest the 21CF RSNs following the completion of the 21CF Acquisition.
The proposed final judgment is subject to the approval of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
There can be no assurance that such court approval will be granted.
Although we intend to fully comply with the proposed final judgment, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such divestitures expeditiously or on favorable terms, or that governmental authorities will approve the terms of such divestitures.
In the event that we are unable to divest all of the 21CF RSNs within the agreed upon time periods, the DOJ may apply for a trustee to be appointed to give effect to the divestitures, and we will be unable to object to any sale of the 21CF RSNs by the trustee on any grounds other than the trustee’s malfeasance.
The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the United Kingdom (the “U.K.
Takeover Panel”) has ruled that, unless the Sky Acquisition has completed or a third party has acquired more than 50% of the ordinary shares in Sky, in each case, prior to the completion of the 21CF Acquisition, we will be obliged to make a mandatory offer for all the ordinary shares in Sky not already owned by 21CF.
21CF currently has an approximately 39% interest in Sky.
The U.K. Takeover Panel has ruled that, unless the Sky Acquisition has completed or a third party has acquired more than 50% of the ordinary shares in Sky, in each case prior to the completion of the 21CF Acquisition, we will be obliged to make a mandatory offer for all the ordinary shares in Sky not already owned by 21CF in accordance with Note 8 of Rule 9.1 of the Takeover Code as promulgated by the U.K. Takeover Panel (the “U.K.
Takeover Code”) at an offer price of £14.00 for each ordinary share in Sky.
The Hearings Committee of the U.K. Takeover Panel (the “Hearings Committee”) reviewed the ruling made by the U.K. Takeover Panel that set the mandatory offer price at £14.00 per share at a hearing held on July 27, 2018, and upheld such ruling.
It is expected that there will be an appeal to the U.K. Takeover Appeal Board, which could agree or disagree with the offer price set by the U.K. Takeover Panel.
In the event that there is a further appeal and the U.K. Takeover Appeal Board does not agree with such offer price, the price at which we may be required to make such mandatory offer may be increased or decreased.
An increase in the mandatory offer price could adversely affect our financial position.
55
ITEM 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds