In addition to the risks described below and the other information set forth in this report, the factors discussed in "Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2018 could materially affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects. The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent SEC reports are not the only risks facing us. There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects.

Dell Technologies’ ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue is subject to additional risks and uncertainties.

Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 51% of Dell Technologies’ consolidated net revenue for Fiscal 2018. Dell Technologies’ future growth rates and success are substantially dependent on the continued growth of Dell Technologies’ business outside of the United States. Dell Technologies’ international operations face many risks and uncertainties, including varied local economic and labor conditions; political instability; changes in the U.S. and international regulatory environments; the impacts of trade protection measures, including increases in tariffs and trade barriers due to the current geopolitical climate and changes and instability in government policies and international trade arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in non-U.S. markets; tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations); copyright levies; and foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these factors could negatively affect Dell Technologies’ international business results and prospects for growth.

Adverse global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may harm Dell Technologies' business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability.

As a global company with customers operating in a broad range of businesses and industries, Dell Technologies' performance is affected by global economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect customer demand for Dell Technologies' products and services. Such economic conditions could result in postponed or decreased spending amid customer concerns over unemployment, reduced asset values, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, local and state governments, and sovereign nations. Weak or unstable global economic conditions, including due to international trade protection measures, also could harm Dell Technologies' business by contributing to product shortages or delays, insolvency of key suppliers, customer and counterparty insolvencies, increased product costs and associated price increases, reduced global sales, and increased challenges in managing Dell Technologies' treasury operations. Any such effects could have a negative impact on Dell Technologies' net revenue and profitability.

ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS