The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. The Company’s fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. 

As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of digital content and applications through its Digital Content and Services, which allows customers to discover and download digital content, iOS, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV applications, and books through either a Mac or Windows personal computer or through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices (“iOS devices”), Apple TV and Apple Watch. The Company’s business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services to provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease-of-use and seamless integration. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company’s offerings. 

Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’s reportable segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading “Segment Operating Performance,” and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” 

iPhone is the Company’s line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. In September 2017, the Company introduced iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, featuring a new glass and aluminum design, enhanced cameras and speakers, wireless charging and augmented reality optimization. iPhone includes Siri, a voice-activated intelligent assistant, and Apple Pay and Touch ID on qualifying devices. 

iPad is the Company’s line of multi-purpose tablets based on its iOS operating system, which includes iPad Pro, iPad and iPad mini. In June 2017, the Company released a new 10.5-inch iPad Pro and an updated 12.9-inch iPad Pro with more advanced displays and enhanced performance. 

Mac is the Company’s line of desktop and portable personal computers based on its macOS operating system. The Company’s portable computers include MacBook, MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and MacBook Pro with Touch Bar. 

Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple’s iCloud services. iOS 11 also introduces ARKit, an augmented reality framework for developers. 

Support for iCloud is built into macOS so users can access content and information from Mac, iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. 

watchOS 4 also includes an enhanced Workout app and introduces GymKit, a technology platform that offers users connected workouts with cardio equipment. 

tvOS is the Company’s operating system for Apple TV. 

The Company’s application software includes iWork and various other software, including Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro X and FileMaker Pro. 

The Mac App Store, available for Mac computers, allows customers to discover, download and install Mac applications. The TV App Store allows customers access to apps and games specifically for Apple TV. Apple Music offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations that evolve based on a user’s play or download activity and a subscription-based internet streaming service that also provides unlimited access to the Apple Music library. 

iCloud is the Company’s cloud service which stores music, photos, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them up-to-date and available across multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple TV. 

These include assistance that is built into software products, electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (“APP”) and AppleCare+ (“AC+”). APP and AC+ are fee-based services that extend the coverage of phone support eligibility and hardware warranty repairs. 

Apple Pay is the Company’s cashless payment service available in certain countries that offers an easy, secure and private way to pay. Apple Pay allows users to pay for purchases in participating stores accepting contactless payments and to pay for purchases within participating apps on qualifying devices. 

Additionally, in June 2017, the Company announced the HomePod wireless speaker and in September 2017, announced AirPower, a new wireless charging accessory, which are expected to be available in December 2017 and calendar year 2018, respectively. 

Apple TV connects to consumers’ TVs and enables them to access digital content directly for streaming video, playing music and games, and viewing photos. Apple TV runs on the Company’s tvOS operating system and is based on apps built for the television. In September 2017, the Company introduced Apple TV 4K, which supports 4K and High Dynamic Range content, providing customers with enhanced picture quality. 

Apple Watch enables users to communicate in new ways from their wrist, track their health and fitness through activity and workout apps, and includes Siri and Apple Pay. 

iPod touch, based on the Company’s iOS operating system, is a flash memory-based digital music and media player that works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing and playing digital content and apps. 

Developer program membership provides access to beta software and advanced app capabilities (e.g., CloudKit, HealthKit and Apple Pay), the ability to test apps using TestFlight, distribution on the App Store, access to App Analytics and code-level technical support. Developer programs also exist for businesses creating apps for internal use (the Apple Developer Enterprise Program) and developers creating accessories for Apple devices (the MFi Program). All developers also have access to extensive technical documentation and sample code. 

The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. 

The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. 

The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training, and offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software and other accessories that complement the Company’s products. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing of the Company’s products and related solutions. 

Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of product expertise, integration and support services. 

The Company is committed to delivering solutions to help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction can result in higher levels of student achievement and has designed a range of products, services and programs to address the needs of education customers. 

The Company’s products are compatible with thousands of third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment of custom applications as well as remote device administration. 

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

The Company’s financial condition and operating results can be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on gross margins. These markets are characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use of mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and other digital electronic devices. 

The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are characterized by aggressive price competition, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. 

The Company’s digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer music and video services. 

The Company’s future financial condition and operating results depend on the Company’s ability to continue to develop and offer new innovative products and services in each of the markets in which it competes. 

Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. The Company’s business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. 

The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. 

Substantially all of the Company’s hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland. The Company’s manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover its requirements for periods up to 150 days. 

The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through R&D, licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. 

The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. 

Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. 

Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company’s products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. 

Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data 

During 2017, the Company’s domestic and international net sales accounted for 37% and 63%, respectively, of total net sales. 

Substantially all of the Company’s hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland. Information regarding concentration in the available sources of supply of materials and products is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, “Commitments and Contingencies.” 

Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. 

The Company offers a limited parts and labor warranty on its hardware products. In addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP or AC+, which extends service coverage on many of the Company’s hardware products. 

In the Company’s experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. Backlog is often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. 

As of September 30, 2017, the Company had approximately 123,000 full-time equivalent employees. 

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. 