Item 1 of this report.
Consumers can block or delete cookies through their browsers or “ad-blocking” software or applications.
Any reduction in new or renewed subscriptions in a quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results until a later quarter.
We are closely monitoring developments related to requirements for transferring personal data outside the EU.
Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to customer data.
Our future success depends on a variety of factors, including our continued ability to innovate, introduce new products and services efficiently, enhance and integrate our products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments.
Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems or attempt to gain logical access to our products, services, or information systems for the purpose of exfiltrating content and data.
Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business.
If we fail to anticipate customers’ rapidly changing needs and expectations or adapt to emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer.
18
Some of our enterprise offerings have extended and complex sales cycles, which can make our sales cycles unpredictable.
We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We generally recognize revenue from subscription offerings ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which range from 1 to 36 months.
If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm, costly and time intensive notification requirements, and cause us to lose customers and future business.
The expectations and needs of technology consumers are constantly evolving.
Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternative licensing arrangements.
If we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems or if our systems become out-of-date or obsolete and we are not able to deliver the quality of data security customers require, our business could be adversely affected.
Security breaches in data centers we manage, or third parties manage on our behalf, may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of employee and customer data, which could expose us to liability and adversely affect our reputation and business.
The complexity in these sales cycles is due to several factors, including:
•the need for our sales representatives to educate customers about the use and benefit of large-scale deployments of our products and services, including technical capabilities, security features, potential cost savings and return on investment;
•the desire of organizations to undertake significant evaluation processes to determine their technology requirements prior to making information technology expenditures;
•the need for our representatives to spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services;
•intensifying competition within the industry;
•the negotiation of large, complex, enterprise-wide contracts;
•the need for our customers to obtain requisition approvals from various decision makers within their organizations due to the complexity of our solutions touching multiple departments within customers’ organizations; and
•customer budget constraints, economic conditions and unplanned administrative delays.
We provide products and services, directly and indirectly, to a variety of government entities, both domestically and internationally.
The introduction of certain technologies may reduce the effectiveness of our products.
These vulnerabilities could cause such applications to crash and could allow an attacker to take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers.
ITEM 1A.
Our senior unsecured notes and senior unsecured revolving credit agreement impose restrictions on us and require us to maintain compliance with specified covenants.
Depending on the results of our review, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets were determined, negatively impacting our results of operations.
In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the United States, we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries’ earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the United States.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention of management and key personnel.
A disruption in financial markets could impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management and affect our derivative counterparties.
We face various risks associated with our operating as a multinational corporation.
Political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers.
We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to third-party service providers.
Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability.
If a transition among data centers or to third-party service providers encounters unexpected interruptions, unforeseen complexity, or unplanned disruptions despite precautions undertaken during the process, this may impair our delivery of products and services to customers and result in increased costs and liabilities, which may harm our operating results and our business.
We continue to hire personnel in countries where exceptional technical knowledge and other expertise are offered at lower costs, which increases the efficiency of our global workforce structure and reduces our personnel related expenditures.
Notwithstanding the independence of our channel partners, we face legal risk and potential reputational harm from the activities of these third parties including, but not limited to, export control violations, workplace conditions, corruption and anti-competitive behavior.
We cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position.
Any of these events could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders or could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products, which could in turn decrease that country’s or region’s demand for our products.
If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, then we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
We may not prevail in every lawsuit or dispute.
The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes.
Item 8, Note 1.
If we are unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed.
Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets.
We have $1.9 billion in senior unsecured notes outstanding.
Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
PROPERTIES
