MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. 

During fiscal 2017, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company, for $560.8 million. 

During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. 

We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. 

See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these acquisitions. 

On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. 

Our revenue is derived from the subscription, non-software related hosted services, perpetual and term-based licensing of software products, associated software maintenance and support plans, consulting services, training and technical support. In response to evolving customer and market expectations, we frequently expand and improve our technology to keep up with the pace of change, to provide enhancements to our tools to meet industry needs and to provide support at each stage of the customer’s life cycle. 

Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. 

We enter into multiple element revenue arrangements in which a customer may purchase a combination of software, upgrades, maintenance and support, hosted services and consulting. 

Absent VSOE, revenue is deferred until the earlier of the point at which VSOE of fair value exists for any undelivered element or until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. However, if the only undelivered element is maintenance and support, the entire 

Changes in assumptions or judgments or changes to the elements in a software arrangement could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. 

We determine VSOE for each element based on historical stand-alone sales to third parties or from the stated renewal rate for the elements contained in the initial arrangement. 

We have established VSOE for our software maintenance and support services, custom software development services, consulting services and training, when such services are sold optionally with software licenses. 

For multiple-element arrangements containing our non-software services, we must: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of VSOE of selling price, third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price or best-estimated selling price (“BESP”), as applicable; and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements based on the relative selling price method. 

For multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software elements, we allocate revenue to software or software-related elements as a group and any non-software elements separately based on the selling price hierarchy. Revenue is recognized when revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. 

BESP is generally used for offerings that are not typically sold on a stand-alone basis or for new or highly customized offerings. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, our assumptions and judgments regarding future products and services as well as our estimates of royalty revenue could differ from actual events, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. 

Product revenue is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce the revenue recognized for estimated future returns, rebates and price protection at the time the related revenue is recorded. Product returns may be more or less than what was estimated. Our estimate of the rate of sell-through for product in the channel could be different than what actually occurs. 

Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. 

We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. 

Our consulting revenue is recognized on a time and materials basis and is measured monthly based on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. 

We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. 

In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We expect future examinations to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from such examinations. 

Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. 

A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings as of the balance sheet date, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. 

Our income tax expense has differed from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to discrete items and to earnings considered as permanently reinvested in foreign operations. 

In the current global tax policy environment, any changes in laws, regulations and interpretations related to these assertions could adversely affect our effective tax rates or result in other costs to us, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. 

Moreover, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for adjustments that may result from these examinations. 

See Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance, or potential significance to us. 

For fiscal 2017, we reported strong financial results consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Marketing, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. 

Creative Cloud delivers value through frequent product updates, storage and access to user files stored in the cloud with syncing of files across users’ machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. 

We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. 

These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. 

We are also a market leader with our Adobe Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services, including Adobe Sign. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. 

Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. Our reported ARR results in fiscal 2017 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2017 and held constant throughout the year. 

Creative ARR exiting fiscal 2017 was $4.63 billion, up from $3.52 billion at the end of fiscal 2016. Revaluing our ending ARR for fiscal 2017 using currency rates at the beginning of fiscal 2018, our Digital Media ARR at the end of fiscal 2017 would be $5.39 billion or approximately $154 million higher than the ARR reported above. 

Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in fiscal 2017 was $4.17 billion, up from $3.18 billion in fiscal 2016 and representing 31% year-over-year growth. 

We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Marketing segment. These comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. 

Adobe Experience Cloud consists of the following cloud offerings: 

•Adobe Marketing Cloud—provides an integrated set of solutions to help marketers differentiate their brands and engage their customers, helping businesses manage, personalize, and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys; includes Adobe Experience Manager (“AEM”), Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target, Adobe Social and Adobe Primetime. 

•Adobe Analytics Cloud—enables businesses to move from insights to actions in real time by uniquely integrating audiences as the core system of intelligence for the enterprise; makes data available across all Adobe clouds through the capture, aggregation, rationalization and understanding of vast amounts of disparate data and then translating that data into singular customer profiles; includes Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager. 

•Adobe Advertising Cloud—delivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across traditional TV and digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens; combines capabilities from Adobe Media Optimizer (“AMO”) and Adobe’s acquisition of TubeMogul during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. 

By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. 

We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. 

Financial Performance Summary for Fiscal 2017 

Revenue for fiscal 2016 benefited from an extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2016 was a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2017 and 2015, which were 52-week years. 

We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of the service. 

We have the following reportable segments—Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. 

Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise offerings and the sale of our hosted Adobe Experience Cloud services. 

In fiscal 2017, we categorized our products into the following reportable segments: 

Our customers include traditional content creators, web application developers and digital media professionals, as well as their management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. 

Our customers include digital marketers, advertisers, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, chief marketing officers, chief information officers and chief revenue officers. 

•Print and Publishing—Our Print and Publishing segment addresses market opportunities ranging from the diverse authoring and publishing needs of technical and business publishing to our legacy type and OEM printing businesses. 

Fiscal 2017 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2016 Revenue 

Revenue from Digital Media increased $1.07 billion during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily driven by increases in revenue associated with our creative offerings. 

The increase was primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings driven by increases in individual, team and enterprise subscriptions. 

Adobe Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to increases in Document Cloud subscriptions revenue, offset in part by expected declines in revenue associated with our perpetually licensed Acrobat offering. 

Also contributing to the increase in Adobe Experience Cloud revenue were increases in revenue associated with our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings, including Tubemogul which we acquired in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. 

Fiscal 2016 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2015 Revenue 

Revenue from Digital Media increased $845.8 million during fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015, primarily driven by increases in revenue associated with our creative offerings. 

To a lesser extent, increases in revenue associated with our Creative Cloud Photography Plan subscription offering and stock photography offerings also contributed to the increase in revenue associated with our creative offerings. 

Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, decreased slightly during fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015, primarily due to expected decreases in revenue associated with our Acrobat perpetual license offering. 

Increases in Adobe Experience Cloud revenue were largely driven by the continued adoption of our AEM offerings and, to a lesser extent, the increase in revenue associated with Adobe Campaign. 

Fiscal 2017 Revenue by Geography Compared to Fiscal 2016 Revenue by Geography 

Further, the overall increase in EMEA revenue was slightly offset by declines due to the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies as discussed below. 

Fiscal 2016 Revenue by Geography Compared to Fiscal 2015 Revenue by Geography 

Further, the overall increase in EMEA revenue was partially offset by declines due to the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies as discussed below. 

Included in the overall change in revenue for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below. 

 During fiscal 2017, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against the British Pound, which negatively impacted revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents. 

 During fiscal 2016, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against the Euro and British Pound which negatively impacted revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents. 

See Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographic information. 

Unbilled deferred revenue represents expected future billings that are contractually committed under our existing subscription, SaaS and managed services agreements that have not been invoiced and are not recorded in deferred revenue within our financial statements. Comparatively, we had unbilled deferred revenue backlog of approximately $3.42 billion as of December 2, 2016, of which approximately 40% to 50% was not reasonably expected to be billed during fiscal 2017. 

Additionally, the unbilled deferred revenue backlog for multi-year subscription agreements that are billed annually is typically higher at the beginning of the contract period, lower prior to renewal and typically increases when the agreement is renewed. 

Cost of Revenue (dollars in millions) 

Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party royalties and expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. Cost of subscription revenue also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings. 

Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: 

Media costs increased during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to our TubeMogul advertising platform offerings, which are part of the Adobe Advertising Cloud and were acquired through our acquisition of TubeMogul in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. 

Hosting services and data center costs increased in all periods presented primarily due to the continued increase in transaction volumes in our Adobe Experience Cloud and Creative Cloud offerings. 

The increase in cost of subscription revenue during fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 were partially offset by decreases in amortization of purchased intangibles driven by the decrease in amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisitions of Omniture and Efficient Frontier that became fully amortized in the latter part of fiscal 2015. 

Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. 

As a result of redirecting our focus and development efforts towards our Creative Cloud and Adobe Experience Cloud subscription offerings, our cost of product revenue declined in all periods presented due to the following: 

The decrease in cost of product revenue during fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 was partially offset by an increase in royalty payments related to our stock photography perpetual offering. 

Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. 

Cost of services and support revenue increased due to the following: 

Compensation costs increased during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 as compared to the corresponding year ago periods primarily due to increases in headcount resulting from decreased usage of outside consultants that were providing consulting and training services to customers. 

Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expenses 

Research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to increases in compensation costs driven by headcount increases and stock-based compensation expense. 

Research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses increased during 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits associated with headcount increases. 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. 

Research and development expenses increased due to the following: 

We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. 

Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. 

Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. 

General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: 

As a result of these acquisitions, we purchased intangible assets that are being amortized over their estimated useful lives ranging from one to fourteen years. 

Amortization expense remained relatively consistent during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. 

Amortization expense increased during fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the write-off of certain acquired intangible assets from a previous acquisition and the increase in amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased in fiscal 2016. 

Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net (dollars in millions) 

(**) Percentage is less than 1%. 

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 

Interest and other income (expense), net also includes gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses other than any gains recorded to revenue from our hedging programs. 

Interest and other income (expense), net increased in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 due to higher average invested balances and interest rates and a decline in foreign exchange hedging costs. 

Interest and other income (expense), net decreased in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 due to a gain on the sale of certain property assets that occurred in fiscal 2015 and an increase in foreign exchange hedging costs, offset in part by an increase in interest income due to higher average invested balances and interest rates. 

Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. 

Interest expense increased during fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher short-term floating interest rates on interest rate swaps. 

Interest expense increased during fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher short-term floating interest rates on interest rate swaps and higher average debt balances. 

Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. 

Provision for Income Taxes (dollars in millions) 

As described in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we early adopted the updated accounting standard for share-based payment accounting during fiscal 2017. 

The increase was partially related to a one-time tax cost associated with licensing acquired company assets to our trading subsidiaries, offset in part by the recognition of excess tax benefits due to our adoption of new accounting guidance related to stock-based compensation and the completion of certain income tax examinations. 

The decrease was partially offset by stronger domestic profits for fiscal 2016. The reinstatement of the credit was retroactive to January 1, 2015. In addition, the fiscal 2015 effective tax rate included one-time tax costs associated with licensing acquired company assets to Adobe’s trading companies, offset by tax benefits for the temporary reinstatement of the U.S. Research and Development credit in December 2014. 

A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year was earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the United States, we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries’ earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the United States. 

See Note 9 of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our provision for income taxes. 

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 

The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $172.9 million, $178.4 million and $258.7 million for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of which, $135.0 million, $144.5 million and $220.2 million if recognized, would affect our effective tax rates for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which were net of the estimated $37.9 million, $33.9 million and $38.5 million federal benefits related to deducting certain payments on future federal and state tax returns for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $23.6 million and $22.4 million for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance of current and non-current assets, liabilities and income taxes payable. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $40 million. 

This data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 

 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: 

Other sources of cash are proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. Other uses of cash include our stock repurchase program, which is described below, business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. 

The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increased subscriptions for our Creative Cloud offerings and increases in Digital Marketing hosted services. The primary working capital uses of cash were increases in trade receivables, payments of trade payables assumed as part of the TubeMogul acquisition, and a decrease in income taxes payable. Income taxes payable decreased primarily due to taxes paid in excess of the tax provision increase. 

The primary working capital uses of cash were increases in trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and a decrease in income taxes payable. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increased subscriptions for our Creative Cloud offerings and increases in Digital Marketing hosted services. Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased 

primarily due to advanced tax payments made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. 

For fiscal 2015, net cash provided by operating activities of $1.47 billion was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The increase in income taxes payable was primarily due to higher taxable income levels during fiscal 2015. Trade payables increased primarily due to the timing of payments to web services vendors as certain invoices were received in the final weeks of fiscal 2015. 

For fiscal 2017, net cash used for investing activities of $442.9 million was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments and our acquisition of TubeMogul. 

For fiscal 2016, net cash used for investing activities of $960.0 million was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments. 

These cash outflows were offset in part by sales and maturities of short-term investments and proceeds received from the sale of certain property assets. 

See Note 2 and Note 6 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our acquisitions and the Almaden Tower purchase, respectively. 

For fiscal 2017, net cash used for financing activities of $1.18 billion was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and costs associated with the issuance of treasury stock, offset in part by proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock. 

For fiscal 2016, net cash used for financing activities of $1.09 billion was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and costs associated with the issuance of treasury stock, offset in part by proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. 

In addition, we incurred issuance costs of $7.9 million. Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2025 Notes using the effective interest method. 

See Note 15 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. 

See the section titled “Stock Repurchase Program” discussed below. 

We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. 

Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations 

Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2018 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. 

investments totaled $5.82 billion as of December 1, 2017. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds. 

Under the provisions of the Act, the U.S. corporate tax rate decreased from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, our undistributed foreign earnings amount of approximately $4 billion are subject to taxation in fiscal 2018 and are available for repatriation, and our future foreign earnings are subject to U.S. taxation. These changes will require us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities and reclassify approximately $380 million of deferred tax liabilities related to undistributed foreign earnings to long-term income taxes payable due over eight years. 

Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled “Risk Factors.” However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. 

On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. As of December 1, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. 

As of December 1, 2017, the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.9 billion, consisting of $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 (together with the 2020 Notes, the “Notes”). 

Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate bonds and commercial paper, U.S. Treasury securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. 

In January 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program granting us authority to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2019. 

During fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $1.10 billion, $1.08 billion, and $625 million, respectively. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than our estimate of the expected foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. 

The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. During fiscal 2017, we repurchased approximately 8.2 million shares at an average price per share of $134.20 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016. 

As of December 1, 2017, $101.5 million of prepayments remained under the agreement. 

Upon completion of the $300 million stock repurchase agreement, $1.6 billion remains under our current authority. 

See Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for share repurchases during the quarter ended December 1, 2017. 

Summary of Stock Repurchases for Fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 

(1) Stock repurchase agreements executed with large financial institutions. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations 

See Note 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our contractual commitments. 

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 1, 2017 (in millions): 

Subsequent to December 1, 2017, we purchased land near our headquarters in San Jose, California for a total purchase price of $68 million. 

As of December 1, 2017, our outstanding notes payable consist of the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes with a total carrying value of $1.88 billion. In June 2014, we entered into interest rate swaps that effectively converted the fixed interest rate on our 2020 Notes to a floating interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a fixed number of basis points through February 1, 2020. 

As of December 1, 2017, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. 

Under the terms of our credit agreement, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. 

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 

See Results of Operations - Provision for Income Taxes above for our discussion on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. 

We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. 

Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. 

To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 