We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers.
We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers.
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including:
•local economic and political conditions;
•government regulation of e-commerce and other services, electronic devices, and competition, and restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization, and restrictions on foreign ownership;
•restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights;
•business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices;
•limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions;
•limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure;
•shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow;
•laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, and restrictions on pricing or discounts;
•lower levels of use of the Internet;
•lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.;
•lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk;
•difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences;
•different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions;
7
•compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties;
•laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and
•geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.
Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.
It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites, and promote our brand internationally.
We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Growth Rate
We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate.
If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results.
Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks
Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally.
Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments
We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies.
In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them.
The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
We do not have “key person” life insurance policies.
11
We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile
We have a rapidly evolving business model.
We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell.
In these jurisdictions, we may be subject to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation of transferred funds, consumer disclosures, and authentication.
We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results.
Item 1A.Risk Factors
Please carefully consider the following risk factors.
Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights.
The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable.
Any of these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy.
If our current suppliers were to stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components, or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural disasters, or for other reasons, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all.
This decision orders Luxembourg to calculate and recover additional taxes from us for the period May 2006 through June 2014.
Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.
We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers
The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled.
If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities.
We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell or Manufacture
Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability or food safety claims relating to personal injury or illness, death, or environmental or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions.
Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or the payment of damages, including to satisfy indemnification obligations.
We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights.
The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation.
We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.
On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS NOPAs.
15
Item 2.Properties
