Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” 

Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of items sold by third-party sellers as service sales. We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, publishing, certain digital content subscriptions, advertising, and co-branded credit cards. 

Increases in operating income primarily result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. 

We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed costs. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean culture. 

(1)See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional information on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures. 

(2)Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. 

Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle3. We also expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by third-party sellers, the mix of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment terms with suppliers. 

Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and content, including AWS, and expansion of new and existing product categories and service offerings, as well as in technology infrastructure to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices. 

We seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 497 million and 504 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. 

For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant. We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of currency changes. 

Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. 

For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” 

(3)The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. 

This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. 

If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. 

Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, the applicability of special tax regimes, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies, changes to our existing businesses and operations, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments and how they are financed, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”). 

The 2017 Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. 

Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. 

We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and we have been contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS NOPAs. If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. We believe this decision to be without merit and will consider our legal options, including an appeal. 

See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” 

Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies — Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted,” is as follows (in millions): 

Amounts held in foreign currencies were $7.3 billion, $9.1 billion, and $11.1 billion, as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. 

Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. The increase in operating cash flow in 2016, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. 

Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(6.5) billion, $(9.9) billion, and $(27.8) billion in 2015, 2016, and 2017, with the variability caused primarily by cash paid for acquisitions, our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2015, 2016, and 2017, we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $795 million, $116 million, and $14.0 billion. 

Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $4.2 billion, $4.4 billion, and $6.4 billion in 2015, 2016, and 2017. During 2017, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $16.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in seven tranches maturing in 2020 through 2057. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. 

See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional information. 

As of December 31, 2017, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $9.6 billion. The 2017 Tax Act includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. 

The 2017 Tax Act extended through 2026 and enhanced the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property. As of December 31, 2017, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $226 million and we had approximately $855 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. In connection with its October 2017 decision against us on state aid, the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately €250 million, plus interest. 

Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. 

We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. 

There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 

Our results reflect the operations of Whole Foods Market from the date of acquisition. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” 

Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): 

For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. 

The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and, in 2017, the impact of the acquisition of Whole Foods Market. 

International sales increased 24% and 23% in 2016, and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(5.0) billion, $(489) million, and $138 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. 

The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. 

Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): 

We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 

The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, partially offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts. 

Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss by $(278) million, $89 million, and $(85) million for 2015, 2016, and 2017. 

Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $264 million, $(5) million, and $(53) million for 2015, 2016, and 2017. 

Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): 

Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery center and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. 

The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. 

We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. 

Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 

Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. 

The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. 

We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. 

To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. 

The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to payroll and related expenses, as well as increased spending on online marketing channels. 

While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. 

Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. 

We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. 

For 2015, 2016, and 2017, we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation), and $395 million (including $84 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. 

The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. 

Other operating expense, net was $171 million, $167 million, and $214 million during 2015, 2016, and 2017, and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. 

Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. 

Interest expense was $459 million, $484 million, and $848 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. 

Our other long-term liabilities were $12.6 billion and $21.0 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. 

The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation. 

Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. 

This amount is primarily comprised of the remeasurement of federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax on the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The 2017 Tax Act also enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualified property. However, we have reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax accruals. The amount of this one-time tax is not material. 

Our provision for income taxes in 2016 was higher than in 2015 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may realize a tax benefit, an increase in tax amortization deductions, and a decline in the proportion of nondeductible expenses. 

Our provision for income taxes in 2017 was lower than in 2016 primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the provisional favorable effect of the 2017 Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments. 

In performing this assessment with respect to each jurisdiction, we review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains, and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. 

recognized an estimated charge to tax expense of $600 million to record a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets in Luxembourg. 

We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2017, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $226 million and we had approximately $855 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. 

See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Income Taxes” for additional information. 

Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax 

The primary components of this activity during 2015, 2016, and 2017 were our equity-method investment losses during the periods and impairments recorded in 2016. 

Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. 

We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. 

Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives,” which both are included in cash flow from investing activities. 

Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments 

Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. 

Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases 

Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which is included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. 

All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. 

The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): 

(1)Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 

(2)Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 

These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 1, 2018, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. 

•Net sales are expected to be between $47.75 billion and $50.75 billion, or to grow between 34% and 42% compared with first quarter 2017. 

•Operating income is expected to be between $300 million and $1.0 billion, compared with $1.0 billion in first quarter 2017. 

•This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded. 

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 