Our businesses currently face a wide range of competition, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively. 

All of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers. 

AT&T, our largest phone company competitor, acquired DirecTV, the nation’s largest DBS provider, in 2015 to create an even larger competitor, and in 2016, announced a proposed merger with Time Warner, a media and entertainment company. Competition for our cable services consists primarily of DBS providers and phone companies with fiber-based networks that typically offer features, pricing and packaging for services comparable to ours. 

Our wireline voice services are facing increased competition as customers replace wireline phones with wireless and Internet-based phone services. 

There can be no assurance that we can execute on these and other initiatives in a manner sufficient to grow or maintain our Cable Communications segment revenue, maintain our Cable Communications segment operating margin or to compete successfully in the future. 

Each of NBCUniversal’s businesses also faces substantial and increasing competition from providers of similar types of content, as well as from other forms of entertainment and recreational activities. 

Our ability to compete may be negatively affected if we do not provide our customers with a satisfactory customer experience. 

There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against existing or newer competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our businesses. 

 20Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Changes in consumer behavior driven by online distribution platforms for viewing content could adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models. 

These distribution platforms are driving changes in consumer behavior as consumers seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and access communications services. 

While we are attempting to adapt our video service offerings to changing consumer behaviors, for example, by deploying our X1 platform and cloud DVR technology and adding apps such as Netflix on our X1 set-top boxes, virtual multichannel video providers, subscription video on demand services and programming networks that provide content directly to consumers over the Internet continue to gain consumer acceptance. 

An increasing number of companies offering subscription video on demand services, including some that also offer exclusive high-quality original video programming, as well as programming networks offering content directly to consumers over the Internet, have increased the number of entertainment choices available to consumers, which has intensified audience fragmentation. 

The success of any of these ongoing or future developments or our failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to emerging competitors or changes in consumer behavior, including among younger consumers, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, businesses and results of operations. 

A decline in advertisers’ expenditures or changes in advertising markets could negatively impact our businesses. 

Our cable communications, cable networks and broadcast television businesses compete for the sale of advertising time with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as digital media, radio and print. We derive substantial revenue from the sale of advertising, and a decline in expenditures by advertisers, including through traditional linear television distribution models, could negatively impact our results of operations. Advertising sales and rates also are dependent on the methodology used for audience measurement and could be negatively affected if methodologies do not accurately reflect actual viewership levels. 

Our businesses depend on keeping pace with technological developments. 

If we choose technology or equipment that is not as effective or attractive to consumers as that employed by our competitors, if we fail to employ technologies desired by consumers before our competitors do so, or if we fail to execute effectively on our technology initiatives, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. We expect other advances in communications technology to occur in the future. We also may generate less revenue or incur increased costs if changes in our competitors’ product offerings require that we offer certain of our existing services or enhancements at a lower or no cost to our customers or that we make additional research and development expenditures. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

We are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, which impose additional costs and restrictions on our businesses. 

Our broadcast television business is also highly regulated by federal laws and regulations. Our cable networks, filmed entertainment and theme parks businesses are also subject to various other laws and regulations at the international, federal, state and local levels. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could result in administrative enforcement actions, fines, and civil and criminal liability. 

Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or prescribe new ones, which may significantly affect our businesses. Any changes to the legal and regulatory framework applicable to any of our services or businesses could have an adverse impact on our businesses and results of operations. For a more extensive discussion of the significant risks associated with the regulation of our businesses, see Item 1: Business and refer to the “Legislation and Regulation” discussion within that section. 

Programming expenses for our video services are increasing, which could adversely affect our Cable Communications segment’s video business. 

These market factors may be exacerbated by increased consolidation in the media industry, which may further increase our programming expenses. We expect programming expenses for our video services to continue to be our Cable Communications segment’s largest single expense item and to increase for the foreseeable future. Additionally, in the past few years, we have begun paying certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast network programming to our video services customers; we expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. 

NBCUniversal’s success depends on consumer acceptance of its content, and its businesses may be adversely affected if its content fails to achieve sufficient consumer acceptance or the costs to create or acquire content increase. 

The success of these businesses depends on our ability to consistently create, acquire, market and distribute cable network and broadcast television programming, filmed entertainment, theme park attractions and other content that meet the changing preferences of the broad domestic and international consumer markets. 

Particularly with respect to long-term contracts for sports programming rights, our results of operations and cash flows over the term of a contract depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the advertising market, our audience size, the ability to secure distribution from and impose surcharges or obtain carriage on multichannel video providers for the content, and the timing and amount of our rights payments. There can be no assurance that revenue from these contracts will exceed our costs for the rights, as well as the 

 22Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

other costs of producing and distributing the programming. 

The loss of NBCUniversal’s programming distribution agreements, or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms, could adversely affect its businesses. 

Our broadcast television networks depend on their ability to secure and maintain network affiliation agreements with third-party local broadcast television stations in the markets where we do not own the affiliated local broadcast television station. In addition, the number of subscribers to our cable networks may be reduced as a result of multichannel video providers offering smaller packages of channels as part of their virtual or traditional television programming packages and by overall reduced viewing of television programming through multichannel video providers. However, certain illegal online entities may stream our broadcast television content online without our consent and without paying any compensation to us. The loss of any of these agreements, or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms, could reduce NBCUniversal’s revenue and the reach of our television programming and its attractiveness to advertisers, which in turn could adversely affect our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses. There can be no assurance that any of our distribution agreements will be renewed in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. 

We rely on network and information systems and other technologies, as well as key properties, and a disruption, cyber attack, failure or destruction of such networks, systems, technologies or properties may disrupt our businesses. 

Cyber threats and attacks can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across networks, information systems and other technologies. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, products, services, networks or information systems to protect them from similar events in the future, and any such events could lead to litigation or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

In addition, we may obtain certain confidential, proprietary and personal information about our customers, personnel and vendors, and may provide this information to third parties, in connection with our business. 

In the ordinary course of our business, there are frequent attempts to cause such systems-related events and security breaches, and we have experienced minor systems-related events that, to date, have not resulted in any significant degradation or disruption to our network or information systems 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

or our products, services or operations. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance we maintain against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches likely would not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our business that may result, and the occurrence of any such events or security breaches could have an adverse effect on our business. 

Our businesses depend on using and protecting certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. 

We rely on our intellectual property, such as patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other third parties, to use various technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from our vendors and other third parties on reasonable terms, our businesses could be adversely affected. 

In addition, intellectual property constitutes a significant part of the value of NBCUniversal’s businesses, and its success is highly dependent on protecting the intellectual property rights of the content it creates or acquires against third-party misappropriation, reproduction or infringement. 

Piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier, and the enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging, by technological advances that allow the conversion of programming, films and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies. See Item 1: Business and refer to the “Legislation and Regulation - Other Areas of Regulation - Intellectual Property” discussion for additional information. 

We may be unable to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. 

Some of these vendors represent our primary source of supply or grant us the right to incorporate their intellectual property into some of our hardware and software products. If any of these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, if our demand exceeds their capacity or if they are otherwise unable to meet our specifications or provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner or at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services may be adversely affected. 

Weak economic conditions may have a negative impact on our businesses. 

For example, customers may reduce the level of cable services to which they subscribe, or may discontinue subscribing to one or more of our cable services. Weak economic conditions also may have a negative 

 24Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Weak economic conditions and turmoil in the global financial markets may also impair the ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations to us, and any disruption in the global financial markets may affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance any existing debt on acceptable terms. 

Acquisitions and other strategic initiatives present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that we had contemplated. 

Additionally, regulatory agencies, such as the FCC or DOJ, may impose restrictions on the operation of our businesses as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions and strategic initiatives, or may dissuade us from pursing certain transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our businesses. 

Labor disputes, whether involving employees or sports organizations, may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our businesses. 

Many of NBCUniversal’s employees, including writers, directors, actors, technical and production personnel and others, as well as some of our on-air and creative talent employees, are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. Most of NBCUniversal’s collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. 

In addition, our cable networks and broadcast television networks have programming rights agreements of varying scope and duration with various sports organizations to broadcast and produce sporting events, including certain NFL, NHL, NBA and MLB games. 

The loss of key management personnel or popular on-air and creative talent could have an adverse effect on our businesses. 

We rely on certain key management personnel in the operation of our businesses. If we fail to retain our on-air or creative talent, if the costs to retain such talent increase materially, if we need to make significant termination payments, or if these individuals lose their current appeal, our businesses could be adversely affected. 

We face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our businesses. 

There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including global financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations; and potentially adverse tax developments. We, primarily through NBCUniversal, operate our businesses worldwide. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Our Class B common stock has substantial voting rights and separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions, and our Chairman and CEO has considerable influence over our company through his beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock. 

Our Class B common stock has a non-dilutable 33 1/3% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. The Class B common stock also has separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions, even if they are approved by our Board of Directors or by our other shareholders and even if they might be in the best interests of our other shareholders. This non-dilutable voting power is subject to proportional decrease to the extent the number of shares of Class B common stock is reduced below 9,444,375, which was the number of shares of Class B common stock outstanding on the date of our 2002 acquisition of AT&T Corp.’s cable business, subject to adjustment in specified situations. 