We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. Through transactions in 2011 and 2013, we acquired NBCUniversal. 

We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks (collectively, the “NBCUniversal segments”). 

•Cable Networks: Consists primarily of our national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, our cable television studio production operations, and various digital properties. 

•Broadcast Television: Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and various digital properties. 

•Filmed Entertainment: Consists primarily of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide; our films are also produced under the Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names. 

•Theme Parks: Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan. 

Our other business interests consist primarily of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses, and our wireless phone service, which we launched in mid-2017. 

For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 17 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements, and Note 15 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Comcast’s phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on Comcast’s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. 

Homes and businesses passed is estimated based on the best available information. 

For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional cable services, the MDU is counted as a single customer. 

(d)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed. 

Beginning in 2017, we include customers subscribing to our security and automation services in customer relationship information. 

(f)Single product customers, double product customers, and triple and quad product customers represent residential customers that subscribe to one, two, or three and four primary services, respectively. 

We offer our video, high-speed Internet, voice, and security and automation services individually and as bundled services at a discounted rate over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. 

 2Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

which is reported in Corporate and Other. Substantially all of our business customers are initially under minimum-term contracts, which typically range from 2 to 5 years. 

The map below highlights our cable distribution footprint as of December 31, 2017 and the designated market areas (“DMAs”) where we have 250,000 or more customer relationships. 

Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 40 channels to a full service with access to more than 300 channels. We tailor our video services for particular programming preferences, demographics and geographic areas according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements. 

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium networks. 

Our On Demand service provides video customers with over 160,000 programming choices over the course of a month, including approximately 70,000 in high definition. We continue to increase the number of On Demand choices we offer. 

Our HD service provides customers with high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format through an HD set-top box. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind live television. 

Cloud DVR technology allows our video customers to record programming via their set-top box using cloud-based servers and view those recordings on mobile devices via our mobile apps. 

We also launched a streaming video cable service throughout our footprint that allows our high-speed Internet customers to purchase our video cable service and stream live programming to a computer, tablet, smartphone or other device for a monthly fee. 

We offer high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds that range up to 1 gigabit per second (“Gbps”) and fiber-based speeds that range up to 2 Gbps. Throughout our footprint, we are deploying wireless gateways that combine a customer’s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter to improve the performance of multiple IP-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 18.8 million of these hotspots. 

For customers with our high-speed Internet services, our voice services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through our online portal or mobile apps. 

We also offer Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises, as well as advanced voice services. Our small business services offerings primarily include high-speed Internet services, as well as voice and video services, similar to those that we provide to our residential customers, and also include cloud-based solutions that provide file sharing, online backup and web conferencing, among other features. 

We primarily offer our enterprise service offerings to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of our cable distribution footprint where we have agreements with other companies to use their networks to provide coverage. 

In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us. We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. 

We offer security and automation services that provide home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and room temperature, through our online portal or our mobile apps. 

 4Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. 

We continue to focus on technology initiatives to design, develop and deploy next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our X1 platform and related cloud DVR technology, that use IP technology and our own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities, including through a voice-activated remote control, and that allow access to certain third-party Internet applications. 

In addition, we continue to expand our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots. 

We are deploying 1 gigabit high-speed Internet services that leverage DOCSIS 3.1 technology across our footprint and we will continue to expand the capacity of our DOCSIS 3.1 infrastructure, including the implementation of DOCSIS FDX that will enable us to launch multi-gigabit services through our existing network. 

We seek to include in our distribution agreements the rights to offer such programming through multiple delivery platforms, such as through On Demand, our online portal, our mobile apps and our streaming services. We attempt to secure long-term programming distribution agreements with these programming providers. 

Under our contracts with these suppliers, we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses. 

For our voice services, we license software products such as voicemail and text messaging from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts. 

We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and certain other customer premise equipment, network equipment and services to provide our cable services to residential and business customers. 

We use two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our cable services to our residential and business customers. 

Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system. 

We offer our services directly to residential and business customers through our customer service call centers, our retail stores and customer service centers, our websites, door-to-door selling, telemarketing, and third-party outlets, as well as through advertising via direct mail, television and the Internet. 

We also own various digital properties, which include brand-aligned websites. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks and their advertising reach to U.S. households. 

The Nielsen report now includes estimates based on subscribers to both traditional and certain virtual multichannel video providers. 

Our regional sports and news networks together serve more than 28 million households across the United States, including in markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco. 

We also market and distribute our cable network programming to subscription video on demand services, such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix. 

We license our owned content, including programming from our cable network production operations, to cable and broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services. 

Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and our various digital properties, which primarily include brand-aligned websites. 

The NBC network’s programming library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. 

NBCUniversal has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. We also have U.S. broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, 

 6Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include the rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including the NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, on our regional sports networks, and online, including through our mobile apps. 

We currently distribute some of our television programs after their initial broadcast, as well as older television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market. We also produce first-run syndicated shows for local markets that are broadcast on local broadcast television stations in the United States on a market-by-market basis. 

As of December 31, 2017, we owned and operated 11 NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations that collectively reached approximately 32 million U.S. television households, which represent approximately 29% of U.S. television households. 

(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time. 

(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season. 

The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach under the Federal Communications Commission’s (“FCC”) national television ownership cap limits. 

Telemundo is a leading Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. 

It holds the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer through 2026 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for certain NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast through the 2022-23 season. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

The table below presents a summary of these local broadcast television stations. 

(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time. 

(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 15 million U.S. Hispanic households based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season. 

The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. 

(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement. 

Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide. 

Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution operations. Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names. 

These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. 

After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods. We also license our films, including selections from our film library, to cable, broadcast and premium networks, to subscription video on demand 

 8Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

services, and to video on demand and pay-per-view services. 

Universal Orlando also features on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest. Our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood, as well as Universal CityWalk Hollywood. In addition, we license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property, and also provide other services, to third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore. 

Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in rides, attractions and merchandising. 

Our other business interests consist primarily of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses. 

We are also pursuing other business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that we launched in the second quarter of 2017 using our virtual network operator rights to provide the service over Verizon’s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots. 

Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and challenging existing business models. In particular, consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, which has and likely will continue to reduce the number of our video customers and subscribers to our cable networks even as it makes our high-speed Internet services more valuable to consumers. 

Many of these competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for these services, individually and in bundles, comparable to what we offer, and some of these traditional competitors also offer smaller online-only video packages. Many of these competitors also have significant financial resources. 

Current and future wireless Internet services, such as 3G, 4G and 5G wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as customers replace wireline phones with wireless phones and Internet-based phone services such as Skype. 

For example, companies continue to emerge that provide Internet 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

streaming and downloading of video programming, some of which charge no fee or a lower fee than our traditional video packages. 

We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including: 

•DBS providers, including AT&T’s DIRECTV and DISH Network, that transmit satellite signals to substantially all U.S. households to provide video programming and other information similar to our video services 

•phone companies, including AT&T and Verizon, that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which overlap a substantial portion of our service areas, and that in some cases offer bundled offerings that include wireless phone services 

◦virtual multichannel video providers who offer streaming services for linear programming that generally involve smaller packages of programming networks at prices lower than our traditional video service package offerings 

◦subscription video on demand services, such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix, that offer online services and devices that enable Internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming 

◦premium, cable and broadcast networks that provide content directly to consumers 

•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable operators 

•satellite master antenna television systems that offer to their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems and generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments 

•other companies, such as local broadcast television stations, that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming, as well as video rental services and home entertainment and gaming products 

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, including: 

•wireline phone companies and other providers of wireline Internet service 

•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service 

•municipal broadband networks and power companies 

Certain companies that offer DSL service have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled services to compete with our high-speed Internet services. 

Google has launched a fiber-to-the-home network that provides high-speed Internet services in a limited number of areas in which we operate, and certain municipalities in our service areas are also building fiber-based networks. 

Various wireless companies are offering Internet services using a variety of network types, including 3G and 4G, and in the near future 5G, wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks. The availability of these wireless offerings could negatively impact the demand for our high-speed Internet services. 

Our voice services compete with wireline and wireless phone companies, including incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) and competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), and other Internet-based and VoIP service providers. 

 10Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

In addition, we are increasingly competing with other phone service providers as customers replace traditional wireline phone services with wireless and Internet-based phone services. 

We also compete with satellite operators who offer video services to businesses. 

Our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks; subscription video on demand services; local broadcast television stations; home entertainment products; pay-per-view and video on demand services; online activities, such as social networking and viewing user-generated content; gaming products; and other forms of entertainment, news and information. 

The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant. 

Our cable networks compete with other cable networks and programming providers for carriage of their programming by traditional and virtual multichannel video providers and subscription video on demand services. 

In addition, our cable television and broadcast television studio production operations compete with other production companies and creators of content for the acquisition of story properties, for creative, performing and technical personnel, and for distribution of, and consumer interest in, their content. 

Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we produce, their distribution and marketing success, and consumer response. Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. 

We also compete with other providers of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. 

Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as digital, radio and print media. In addition, advertising revenue is adversely affected by the growing use of technologies, such as DVRs and video on demand services, that give consumers greater flexibility to watch programming on a time-delayed or on-demand basis or to fast-forward or skip advertisements within programming. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. 

The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our businesses. The conditions and commitments pursuant to the FCC Order approving the NBCUniversal transaction (“NBCUniversal Order”) expired in January 2018. 

Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules or regulations, or interpretations of existing statutes, rules or regulations, or prescribe new ones, any of which may significantly affect our businesses. We are unable to predict the effects of any of these or any other further legislative requirements on our businesses. 

The following paragraphs summarize material existing and potential future legal and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses, although reference should be made to the Communications Act, FCC regulations, the NBCUniversal Consent Decree and other legislation and regulations for further information. 

In addition, FCC regulations prohibit us from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated video programming network to compete fairly by discriminating against the network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for its carriage. 

In late 2017, the FCC adopted an order relaxing the broadcast media ownership rules and is considering additional revisions to the rules, which could lead to further broadcast television station consolidation. We currently pay certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of the stations’ broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to demands for increased payments and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. Together, these actions may impact retransmission consent negotiations and the fees we pay broadcasters. 

 12Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

The FCC’s rate regulations create a presumption that all local communities are subject to effective competition and should no longer be subject to rate regulation that limits prices cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. All of the other areas we serve have unregulated prices. 

States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the rates, terms and conditions of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. The FCC regulates the rates, terms and conditions that most pole-owning utility companies charge cable operators and telecommunications carriers for allowing attachments to their poles. One of these ordinances in a state that has preempted FCC jurisdiction has been upheld by a federal district court in a challenge brought by another provider, but another ordinance in a state that did not preempt FCC jurisdiction has been vacated by a federal district court in a challenge brought by us as inconsistent with the FCC’s pole attachment rules. 

The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal, including unreasonable renewal conditions. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects are generally favorable but cannot guarantee the future renewal of any individual franchise. 

Some allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. 

We provide high-speed Internet services to our customers. From time to time, the FCC considers imposing new regulatory obligations on ISPs. 

We have committed to be bound by “open Internet” regulations enacted by the FCC in 2010 as a condition of the NBCUniversal Consent Decree until September 2018, even though some of the rules were subsequently overturned on appeal. In addition, under the FCC’s 2010 transparency rule that was upheld on appeal, we are required to disclose our network management practices, performance and commercial terms of our Internet services. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

In 2015, the FCC reclassified broadband Internet access service as a “telecommunications service” subject to new open Internet regulations and certain common carrier regulations under Title II of the Communications Act. 

In addition, the Order revised the transparency rule to require ISPs to disclose any blocking and throttling practices, and any paid prioritization practices associated with their broadband offerings; the FCC retained authority to enforce compliance with the transparency rule. Certain parties have already indicated they intend to appeal the FCC’s Order in federal court. We cannot predict whether or how the rules might be changed, the impact of potential new legislation or the outcome of any litigation. 

These proceedings may result in changes to the FCC’s rules related to the deployment of broadband infrastructure, as well as preemption of any state and local laws or regulations that may unreasonably impede the deployment of broadband infrastructure. 

The NBCUniversal Consent Decree includes various conditions requiring us to maintain a broadband Internet access service of at least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our footprint, and to avoid discrimination in how we treat “specialized services” (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our broadband Internet access service, but not including our broadband Internet access service, video services or voice services). 

Certain states have enacted laws that restrict or prohibit local municipalities from operating municipally owned broadband networks, and there may be efforts in other state legislatures to restrict the development of government-owned networks, although some may choose to ease or facilitate such networks. We cannot predict how successful those efforts will be and how they might affect our business. 

The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours, including regulations relating to privacy of customer proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, law enforcement assistance, outage reporting, Universal Service Fund contribution obligations, rural call completion, back-up power, service discontinuance and certain regulatory filing requirements. The classification determination is important because telecommunications services are regulated more extensively than information services. 

Because the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of our voice services, providers of VoIP services typically either secure CLEC authorization or obtain interconnection to traditional wireline phone company networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, which has the right, as a telecommunications carrier, to request and obtain interconnection with the traditional wireline phone companies. 

 14Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

The FCC regulates the arrangements by which telecommunications carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic and has affirmed the right of CLECs to collect intercarrier compensation when providing interconnection for VoIP providers. 

The FCC or other regulatory authorities may adopt new or different regulations for MVNOs and/or mobile broadband providers in the future, or impose new taxes or fees, which could adversely affect our wireless phone service offering or our business generally. ), as well as certain state or local regulations. 

The federal Universal Service program generally requires us and other phone service providers to pay a fee based on revenue from their interstate and international services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of voice services and broadband-capable voice networks in high-cost areas, the provision of voice services to low-income consumers, and the provision of Internet, voice and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers. We are unable to predict if or how the FCC may change the Universal Service program, or the effects any such changes would have on our businesses. 

This shift could assist some of our competitors. Similarly, the FCC has expanded its Lifeline subsidy program for low-income consumers to include broadband services in addition to voice services. The FCC or Congress may revisit these subsidy programs and how they are funded. 

The Communications Act and FCC regulations generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable operators from favoring cable operators over competing MVPDs. 

We currently offer our cable networks both on a bundled basis and, when requested, individually. 

Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances. 

Under federal regulations, the amount of commercial content that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age is limited, and certain television station programming must serve the educational and informational needs of children under 17 years of age. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Local broadcast television stations may be operated only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license will serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. Although our licenses have been renewed in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain renewal grants. 

Elimination of these limits is subject to judicial appeal. In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order eliminating certain limitations on ownership of television stations and other specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross-ownership of broadcast television stations and newspapers in the same market. 

The FCC recently revised its rules to generally permit a licensee to own up to two broadcast stations in the same DMA as long as at least one of the stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the DMA based on audience share. These recent changes are subject to judicial appeal. 

No entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to consider whether to retain the 50% discount and whether to modify the national television ownership limit. 

The Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast television station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership, although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest. 

Each of the four major broadcast television networks - ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC - is prohibited from being under common ownership or control with another of the four. 

Every three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must carry or retransmission consent. 

We must make available certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes over access to such programming. We have entered into license agreements with Hulu on substantially the same terms as its other owners. 

 16Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

A federal statute and FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local broadcast television stations included indecent or profane material. 

The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements. 

Our theme parks are subject to various regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, as well as liquor licenses. 

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other proprietary-rights laws of the United States and other countries help protect our intellectual property rights. Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our programming. 

While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as do technologies used to evade these laws. 

The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, while the royalties we contribute to the copyright royalty pool for broadcast signals can be challenged by copyright owners in annual audits, and we cannot predict what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them. In addition, the Copyright Office has initiated a rulemaking to consider how royalty payments to content owners are calculated under the compulsory license. 

There has been litigation related to a number of online entities that stream our broadcast television content online without the consent of, or compensation to, NBC or its affiliates. In 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that one such entity, Aereo, violated broadcasters’ exclusive right to perform their copyrighted works publicly. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

We are also subject to various state and federal regulations that provide privacy protections for customer proprietary network information related to our voice services. 

The FTC generally exercises oversight of consumer privacy protections by using its enforcement authority over unfair and deceptive acts or practices to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers. However, that panel’s decision is not in effect and has no precedential effect, pending a final decision from the full Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals after a rehearing en banc. 

Numerous states and localities, in response to congressional action in 2017 to rescind new ISP privacy rules adopted by the FCC regarding the use and disclosure of certain customer information, have considered legislative or other action that would impose new requirements on our collection, use and disclosure of certain customer information. 

We are also subject to stringent data security and data retention requirements that apply to website operators and online services directed to children under 13 years of age, or that knowingly collect or post personal information from children under 13 years of age. 

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial emails, as well as FCC regulations relating to automated telemarketing calls, texts and SMS messages. 

Several states have also enacted general data security requirements to safeguard consumer information, including the proper disposal of consumer information. 

It is a compendium of existing cross-sector cyber-defense processes, practices and protocols that can help companies identify, assess and manage their cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and several government agencies have encouraged compliance with this framework. 

There are pending federal legislative proposals that, if enacted, could create new online consumer privacy protections or impose new requirements on owners and operators of critical infrastructure, including us. 

In this auction, the FCC offered licensees of full-power and Class A television stations the opportunity to sell some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for cash, and it repackaged those spectrum rights and sold new licenses to wireless providers who can use them for mobile broadband services. The FCC assigned 19 of NBCUniversal’s other television stations that did not sell their spectrum rights to new channels; those stations will have to transition to their new channels in a post-auction repacking process that is scheduled to conclude in the third quarter 2020 

 18Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

As a result of the repacking process, Comcast will have to make changes to its cable systems to accommodate broadcasters on their newly assigned channels, and will be reimbursed by the FCC for a portion of those related costs (subject to a nationwide aggregate limit of $1.75 billion). 

In addition, we acquired 73 new mobile broadband licenses in this auction for $1.7 billion. 

FCC 5G Spectrum Proceedings and Other Wireless Regulations 

In three separate regulatory proceedings, the FCC is currently considering establishing and/or modifying its rules to make available large amounts of spectrum that will likely be used to provide the next generation of commercial wireless broadband services, both fixed and mobile, commonly referred to as 5G services. There is also a risk that the FCC could adopt proposals that favor certain business models over others in the 5G marketplace, thereby limiting potential business opportunities for us in the future. 

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing, through both legislative and administrative channels, new or additional taxes or fees on, or limiting or eliminating incentives or credits earned or monetized by, the businesses operated by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes, fees, incentives or credits are computed, earned or monetized. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits most states and localities from imposing sales and other taxes on our Internet access charges, was made permanent by 2016 legislation; however, some jurisdictions have or may assert that certain taxes akin to right-of-way fees are not preempted by Internet Tax Freedom Act. 

Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities. 

We also are subject to various international regulations, including those that cover television broadcasting, programming and advertising. 

Of these employees, approximately 91,000 and 62,000 were associated with our cable communications business and our NBCUniversal businesses, respectively. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. 

Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 