Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We maintain a mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt and we are exposed to the market risk of adverse changes in interest rates. 

We monitor our exposure to the risk of adverse changes in interest rates through the use of techniques that include market valuation and sensitivity analyses. 

As of December 31, 2017, NBCUniversal had no outstanding interest rate derivative financial instruments. 

The effect of NBCUniversal’s interest rate derivative financial instruments was not material to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for any period presented. 

The table below summarizes as of December 31, 2017 by contractual year of maturity the principal cash flows, notional amounts, fair values and contract terms of financial instruments subject to interest rate risk maintained by us. 

The notional amounts do not represent our exposure to credit loss. We estimate interest rates on variable rate debt and swaps using the relevant average implied forward rates through the year of maturity based on the yield curve in effect on December 31, 2017, plus the applicable borrowing margin. 

See Note 2 to each of Comcast’s and NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for additional information on our accounting policies for derivative financial instruments. 

NBCUniversal has significant operations in a number of countries outside the United States, and certain of NBCUniversal’s operations are conducted in foreign currencies. 

As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, NBCUniversal enters into derivative financial instruments related to a significant portion of its foreign currency exposure for transactions denominated in other than the functional currency. 

Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

In certain circumstances, NBCUniversal enters into foreign exchange contracts with initial maturities in excess of 18 months. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, NBCUniversal had foreign exchange contracts with a total notional value of $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 

We have analyzed our foreign currency exposure related to NBCUniversal’s operations as of December 31, 2017, including our hedging contracts, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than their functional currency. In addition, the impact of fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar for our non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in 2017. 

Comcast is also exposed to the market risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates as they relate to its foreign currency denominated debt obligations. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair value of our cross-currency swaps on our £625 million principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2029 was a liability of $80 million and $189 million, respectively. 

Although we may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we do not expect such losses, if any, to be significant. Comcast and NBCUniversal manage the credit risks associated with our derivative financial instruments through diversification and the evaluation and monitoring of the creditworthiness of counterparties. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, Comcast was not required to post collateral under the terms of these agreements. 

 58Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Item 8: Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 