Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) 

Business—Forward-Looking Statements” for more information on the forward-looking statements in this 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (“this Report”). Our actual results may differ materially from those included in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those described in “Part I—Item 1A. 

The following MD&A is intended to provide the reader with an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity by focusing on changes from year to year in certain key measures used by management to evaluate performance, such as profitability, growth and credit quality metrics. MD&A is organized in the following sections: 

• Executive Summary and Business Outlook • Capital Management 

• Consolidated Results of Operations • Risk Management 

• Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis • Credit Risk Profile 

• Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements • Liquidity Risk Profile 

• Business Segment Financial Performance • Market Risk Profile 

• Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates • Supplemental Tables 

• Accounting Changes and Developments • Glossary and Acronyms 

In comparison, we reported net income of $3.8 billion ($6.89 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $25.5 billion for 2016, and $4.1 billion ($7.07 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $23.4 billion for 2015. 

Our net income of $2.0 billion for 2017 includes charges totaling $1.8 billion related to the enactment of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2017. 

Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio as calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach, including transition provisions, was 10.3% and 10.1% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

In December 2017, the Board of Directors reduced the authorized repurchases of our common stock to up to $1.0 billion for the remaining 2017 CCAR period, which ends June 30, 2018 (“2017 Stock Repurchase Program”). 

These highlights are generally based on a comparison between the results of 2017 and 2016, except as otherwise noted. We provide a more detailed discussion of our financial performance in the sections following this “Executive Summary and Business Outlook.” 

 41Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

◦higher income tax provision due to charges associated with the estimated impacts of the Tax Act; 

◦higher provision for credit losses primarily driven by higher charge-offs in our domestic credit card loan portfolio; 

◦higher operating expenses as a result of (i) loan growth; (ii) continued investments in technology and infrastructure; and (iii) restructuring activities, which primarily consisted of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs, that are the result of exiting certain business activities and locations; and 

◦higher interest expense due to the net effect of higher interest rates, as well as growth and mix changes in our interest-bearing liabilities. 

These drivers were partially offset by higher interest income due to growth in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios, as well as higher yields as a result of higher interest rates. 

Our 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 21 basis points to 3.48% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to: 

◦growth and seasoning of recent domestic credit card loan originations. 

◦an allowance build in our domestic credit card loan portfolio primarily due to increasing losses from recent vintages and portfolio seasoning; and 

◦an allowance build in our auto loan portfolio due to higher losses associated with growth. 

These drivers were partially offset by an allowance decrease in our commercial loan portfolio primarily driven by charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio, as well as reduced exposure and improved credit risk ratings in our oil and gas portfolio. 

 42Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

We discuss below our current expectations regarding our total company performance and the performance of each of our business segments over the near-term based on market conditions, the regulatory environment and our business strategies as of the time we filed this Report. The statements contained in this section are based on our current expectations regarding our outlook for our financial results and business strategies. Except as otherwise disclosed, forward-looking statements do not reflect: 

•any change in current dividend or repurchase strategies; 

•the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that have not been previously disclosed; or 

•any changes in laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations, in each case after the date as of which such statements are made. 

Risk Factors” in this Report for factors that could materially influence our results. 

We expect that our current trajectory, coupled with the Tax Act, will enable us to accelerate 2018 earnings per share growth, excluding adjusting items and assuming no substantial change in the broader economic or credit cycles. 

Over time, we expect that marketplace dynamics will consume a portion of the benefit through increasing competition, including higher levels of marketing, lower prices and higher wages, and we expect that these market effects will increase over time. 

We expect our annual effective income tax rate to be around 19% in 2018, plus or minus a reasonable margin of volatility. 

We expect that marketing expense in 2018 will be higher than 2017. 

While our efficiency ratio may vary in any given year, over the long term, we believe that we will be able to achieve gradual improvement in our efficiency ratio driven by growth and digital productivity gains. 

We believe that our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio on a fully phased-in basis will trend toward the mid-10% range by the end of 2018. 

In December 2017, the Board of Directors reduced the authorized repurchases of our common stock to up to $1.0 billion for the remaining 2017 CCAR period, which ends June 30, 2018. See “MD&A—Capital Management—Dividend Policy and Stock Purchases” for more information. 

We continue to be in a strong position to deliver attractive growth and returns, as well as significant capital distribution, subject to regulatory approval and market conditions. 

Credit Card: In our Domestic Card business, we expect that the upward pressure on charge-offs as new loans season and become a larger portion of our overall portfolio will continue to moderate, with a small impact in 2018. 

Consumer Banking: In our Consumer Banking business, we expect that the charge-off rate in our auto finance business will increase gradually and the growth we have experienced in that business will moderate. 

 43Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated financial performance for 2017 and 2016. 

Net interest income represents the difference between the interest income, including certain fees, earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense on our interest-bearing liabilities. We expect net interest income and our net interest margin to fluctuate based on changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 

 44Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 1 below presents, for each major category of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the average outstanding balance, interest income earned or interest expense incurred, and average yield for 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

Table 1: Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin 

Accordingly, we make certain reclassifications to present interest income and yields from our Commercial Banking business on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated assuming an effective tax rate approximately equal to our federal statutory rate (35% for all periods presented), with offsetting reductions to the Other category. 

(3) Interest income and interest expense and the calculation of average yields on interest-earning assets and average rates on interest-bearing liabilities include the impact of hedge accounting. 

 45Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Net interest margin increased by 19 basis points to 6.97% in 2017 compared to 2016. 

•growth in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios; and 

•higher yields as a result of higher interest rates. 

These drivers were partially offset by higher interest expense due to the net effect of higher interest rates, as well as growth and mix changes in our interest-bearing liabilities. 

Net interest income increased by $2.0 billion to $20.9 billion in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by: 

•growth in our credit card and commercial loan portfolios, including loans acquired from the HFS acquisition; and 

•higher yields as a result of higher interest rates. 

Net interest margin increased by 12 basis points to 6.78% in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by: 

•continued growth in our credit card loan portfolio; and 

•continued run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio. 

This increase was partially offset by: 

•the impact of loans acquired from the HFS acquisition, which generally have lower net interest margins compared to our total company portfolio; and 

•margin compression in our auto loan portfolio. 

 46Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 2 displays the change in our net interest income between periods and the extent to which the variance is attributable to: 

•changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities; or 

•changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities. 

Table 2: Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest Income(1) 

The portion of interest income or interest expense attributable to both volume and rate is allocated proportionately when the calculation results in a positive value. 

(2) Some of our commercial loans generate tax-exempt income. 

 47Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Certain prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current period presentation. 

Non-interest income increased by $149 million to $4.8 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: 

•an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume; and 

•gains from the sale of investment securities as a result of portfolio repositioning. 

Non-interest income increased by $49 million to $4.6 billion in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by: 

•an increase in interchange fees driven by higher purchase volume in our Credit Card business, net of rewards expense from the continued expansion of our rewards franchise; and 

•higher revenue attributable to our multifamily business in our Commercial Banking business. 

These increases were partially offset by: 

•lower service charges and other customer-related fees primarily due to the exit of our legacy payment protection products in our Domestic Card business during the first quarter of 2016. 

The provision for credit losses as a percentage of net interest income was 33.6%, 30.9% and 24.1% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

Our provision for credit losses increased by $1.1 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by: 

•higher charge-offs in our domestic credit card loan portfolio due to growth and portfolio seasoning; and 

•higher charge-offs in our auto loan portfolio due to growth. 

These drivers were partially offset by lower provision in our commercial banking loan portfolio primarily driven by stabilizing industry conditions impacting our oil and gas lending portfolio compared to adverse industry conditions in the prior year. 

Our provision for credit losses increased by $1.9 billion in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by: 

•higher charge-offs and a larger allowance build in our credit card loan portfolio due to growth and portfolio seasoning; 

•higher charge-offs in our commercial loan portfolio as a result of continued adverse industry conditions impacting our taxi medallion and oil and gas lending portfolios; and 

•higher allowance in our auto loan portfolio due to continued loan growth, increasing loss expectations on recent originations and a build reflecting a change in accounting estimate of the timing of charge-offs of bankrupt accounts. 

We provide additional information on the provision for credit losses and changes in the allowance for loan and lease losses within “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile,” “Note 4—Loans” and “Note 5—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.” For information on the allowance methodology for each of our loan categories, see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” 

Certain prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current period presentation. 

Non-interest expense increased by $636 million to $14.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: 

•higher operating expenses associated with loan growth, as well as continued investments in technology and infrastructure; and 

•restructuring activities, which primarily consisted of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs, that are the result of exiting certain business activities and locations. 

These increases were partially offset by: 

Non-interest expense increased by $562 million to $13.6 billion in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily due to: 

•higher operating and marketing expenses associated with loan growth, as well as continued investments in technology and infrastructure; 

 48Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $135 million in 2017, primarily driven by a mortgage representation and warranty settlement in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to loss of $19 million in 2016 and income of $38 million in 2015. 

We provide additional information on discontinued operations in “Note 2—Business Developments and Discontinued Operations” and on the net benefit (provision) for mortgage representation and warranty losses and the related reserve for representation and warranty claims in “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Mortgage Representation and Warranty Reserve” and “Note 19—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.” 

The estimated impacts of the Tax Act consist of: 

•$1.6 billion due to the revaluation of our net deferred tax assets reflecting the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; 

•$125 million related to the deemed repatriation of our undistributed foreign earnings; and 

•$76 million associated with the revaluation of our investments in affordable housing projects. 

The impacts of the Tax Act are considered to be reasonable estimates that are provisional in nature and are subject to potential adjustment during the measurement period ending no later than December 2018. 

We recorded income tax provisions of $1.7 billion (31.3% effective income tax rate) and $1.9 billion (31.8% effective income tax rate) in 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

The increase in our effective income tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to charges of $1.8 billion associated with the impacts of the Tax Act, partially offset by a relative increase in the amount of tax credits and tax-exempt income. 

This decrease was partially offset by reduced discrete tax benefits and a reduced benefit of lower taxed foreign earnings. 

We recorded total discrete tax expense of $1.7 billion in 2017, primarily consisting of the charges of $1.8 billion for the estimated impacts of the Tax Act, and discrete tax benefits of $2 million and $15 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

We provide additional information on items affecting our income taxes and effective tax rate in “Note 16—Income Taxes.” 

Total assets increased by $8.7 billion to $365.7 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily driven by an increase in loans held for investment primarily due to growth in our domestic credit card loan portfolio, largely driven by loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition, as well as growth in our auto loan portfolio, partially offset by run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio. 

Total liabilities increased by $7.4 billion to $317.0 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily driven by: 

•an increase in our senior and subordinated notes; and 

These drivers were partially offset by a decrease in our Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) advances outstanding, which is included in other debt. 

 49Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Stockholders’ equity increased by $1.2 billion to $48.7 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to our net income of $2.0 billion in 2017, partially offset by $1.0 billion of dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders. 

The following is a discussion of material changes in the major components of our assets and liabilities during 2017. 

Agency securities include Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) guaranteed securities, Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) issued securities. 

The fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio was $37.7 billion as of December 31, 2017, a decrease of $3.1 billion from December 31, 2016. The decrease in fair value was primarily due to the sale of investment securities as a result of portfolio repositioning. 

Table 5 presents the amortized cost, carrying value and fair value for the major categories of our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

(1) Includes supranational bonds, foreign government bonds, mutual funds and equity investments. 

 50Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Our portfolio of investment securities continues to be concentrated in securities that generally have high credit ratings and low credit risk, such as securities issued and guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury and Agencies. 

We sold all of our non-agency CMBS during 2017. 

Table 6: Non-Agency Investment Securities Credit Ratings 

(1)  Includes investment securities that were not rated. 

For additional information on our investment securities, see “Note 3—Investment Securities.” 

Total loans held for investment consists of both unsecuritized loans and loans held in our consolidated trusts. 

Table 7: Loans Held for Investment 

Loans held for investment increased by $8.9 billion to $254.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to growth in our domestic credit card loan portfolio, largely driven by loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition, as well as growth in our auto loan portfolio, partially offset by run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio. 

We provide additional information on the composition of our loan portfolio and credit quality below in “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile,” “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Note 4—Loans.” 

Total deposits increased by $6.9 billion to $243.7 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016. 

 51Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Securitized debt obligations increased to $20.0 billion as of December 31, 2017 from $18.8 billion as of December 31, 2016 primarily driven by securitized debt obligations assumed in the Cabela’s acquisition, partially offset by maturities outpacing issuances. 

Other debt, which consists primarily of federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, senior and subordinated notes, and FHLB advances, totaled $40.3 billion as of December 31, 2017, of which $39.7 billion represented long-term debt and the remainder represented short-term borrowings. 

The decrease in other debt of $1.4 billion in 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in our FHLB advances outstanding, partially offset by an increase in our senior and subordinated notes. 

We establish representation and warranty reserves for losses associated with the mortgage loans sold by each subsidiary that we consider to be both probable and reasonably estimable. As a result of resolutions and settlements of the substantial majority of our active representation and warranty matters in 2017, our reserve was immaterial as of December 31, 2017. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. 

Deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowances, were approximately $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2017, a decrease of $1.4 billion from December 31, 2016. The impacts of the Tax Act are considered to be reasonable estimates that are provisional in nature and are subject to potential adjustment during the measurement period ending no later than December 2018. 

We have recorded valuation allowances of $226 million and $179 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to fully realize the 2017 net deferred tax asset amounts in future periods. 

We provide additional information on income taxes in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and in “Note 16—Income Taxes.” 

 52Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

These activities typically involve transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) as well as other arrangements, such as letter of credits, loan commitments and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of our customers and support their ongoing operations. 

Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio and asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group, are included in the Other category. 

We use an internal management and reporting process to derive our business segment results. The net interest income of each segment reflects the results of our funds transfer pricing process, which is primarily based on a matched maturity method that takes into consideration market interest rates. Our business segment results are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand-alone business. Total interest income and net fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. We regularly assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, which may result in the implementation of refinements or changes in future periods. 

In addition, our individual business segment results should not be used as a substitute for comparable results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

We provide a reconciliation of our total business segment results to our reported consolidated results in “Note 18—Business Segments.” 

Table 8 summarizes our business segment results, which we report based on revenue and income from continuing operations, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

 53Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(1) Total net revenue consists of net interest income and non-interest income. 

(2) Net income (loss) for our business segments and the Other category is based on income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax. 

(3) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income or tax credits. 

The primary sources of revenue for our Credit Card business are interest income, net interchange income and fees collected from customers. 

Our Credit Card business generated net income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

Table 9 summarizes the financial results of our Credit Card business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. 

Table 9: Credit Card Business Results 

(2) Period-end loans held for investment and average loans held for investment include billed finance charges and fees, net of the estimated uncollectible amount. 

 54Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(3) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

(4) Total net revenue margin is calculated by dividing total net revenue for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

(5) Purchase volume consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period for loans both classified as held for investment and held for sale, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions. 

(6) Within our credit card loan portfolio, only certain loans in our international card businesses are classified as nonperforming. 

◦lower service charges and other customer-related fees, including the impact of the exit of our legacy payment protection products in our Domestic Card business during the first quarter of 2016; and 

◦the absence of a gain recorded in the second quarter of 2016 related to the exchange of our ownership interest in Visa Europe with Visa Inc. as a result of Visa Inc.’s acquisition of Visa Europe. 

These drivers were largely offset by an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume. 

◦higher charge-offs in our domestic credit card loan portfolio due to growth and portfolio seasoning; and 

◦a larger allowance build in our domestic credit card loan portfolio primarily due to increasing losses from recent vintages and portfolio seasoning. 

This driver was partially offset by: 

◦growth in our domestic credit card loan portfolio, largely driven by loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition; and 

◦the impact of foreign exchange rates in our international card businesses driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar in 2017. 

Average loans held for investment increased by $6.9 billion to $103.5 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to growth in our Domestic Card business. 

 55Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2016 compared to 2015, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 include the following: 

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $1.5 billion to $12.6 billion in 2016 primarily driven by loan growth in our Domestic Card business. 

•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income was flat at $3.4 billion in 2016 as an increase in interchange fees driven by higher purchase volume was largely offset by: 

◦higher rewards expense from the continued expansion of our rewards franchise; and 

◦lower service charges and other customer-related fees primarily due to the exit of our legacy payment protection products in our Domestic Card business during the first quarter of 2016. 

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses increased by $1.5 billion to $4.9 billion in 2016 primarily driven by higher charge-offs and a larger allowance build due to continued loan growth and portfolio seasoning. 

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $201 million to $7.7 billion in 2016 primarily attributable to higher operating expenses associated with loan growth as well as continued investments in technology, partially offset by operating efficiencies. 

•Loans Held for Investment: Period-end loans held for investment increased by $9.4 billion to $105.6 billion as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015, and average loans held for investment increased by $9.8 billion to $96.6 billion in 2016 compared to 2015, both primarily due to continued loan growth in our Domestic Card business. 

•Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate increased by 73 basis points to 4.09% in 2016 compared to 2015, and the 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 54 basis points to 3.94% as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015. 

Domestic Card generated net income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

Table 9.1 summarizes the financial results for Domestic Card and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. 

 56Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 9.1: Domestic Card Business Results 

(1) We recognize billed finance charges and fee income on open-ended loans in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements and estimate the uncollectible amount on a quarterly basis. 

(2) Period-end loans held for investment and average loans held for investment include billed finance charges and fees, net of the estimated uncollectible amount. 

(3) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

(4) Total net revenue margin is calculated by dividing total net revenue for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

(5) Purchase volume consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period for loans both classified as held for investment and held for sale, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions. 

Because our Domestic Card business accounts for the substantial majority of our Credit Card business, the key factors driving the results are similar to the key factors affecting our total Credit Card business. 

•higher provision for credit losses; and 

•higher operating expenses associated with loan growth and continued investments in technology and infrastructure. 

These drivers were partially offset by: 

•higher net interest income primarily driven by loan growth; 

 57Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Net income for our Domestic Card business decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by: 

•higher provision for credit losses; and 

•higher operating expenses associated with continued loan growth. 

These drivers were partially offset by higher net interest income resulting from loan growth. 

The primary sources of revenue for our Consumer Banking business are net interest income from loans and deposits and non-interest income from service charges and customer-related fees. 

Our Consumer Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion, $870 million and $1.0 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

 58Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 10 summarizes the financial results of our Consumer Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. 

Table 10: Consumer Banking Business Results 

 59Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(2) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

The total nonperforming asset rate is calculated based on total nonperforming assets divided by the combined period-end total loans held for investment, REO and other foreclosed assets. 

(5) Loans serviced for others represents loans serviced for third parties related to our consumer home loan business. 

The increase was primarily driven by changes in the product mix in Consumer Banking as a result of growth in our auto loan portfolio and run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio. 

◦higher losses in our auto loan portfolio due to changes in our charge-off practices for certain bankrupt accounts and growth; and 

◦a greater portion of auto loans in our total consumer banking loan portfolio, which generally have higher charge-off rates than other products within this portfolio. 

The 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 67 basis points to 5.34% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily attributable to higher auto delinquency inventories. 

Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2016 compared to 2015, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 include the following: 

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income was flat at $5.8 billion in 2016 as growth in our auto loan portfolio was offset by the continued run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio and margin compression in our auto loan portfolio. 

 60Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The increase was primarily driven by changes in the product mix in Consumer Banking as a result of the continued run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio and growth in our auto loan portfolio, partially offset by declining yield in our auto loan portfolio. 

•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income was substantially flat at $733 million in 2016. 

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses increased by $236 million to $1.1 billion in 2016 primarily driven by: 

◦a higher allowance in our auto loan portfolio due to continued loan growth, increasing loss expectations on recent originations and a build reflecting a change in accounting estimate of the timing of charge-offs of bankrupt accounts; and 

◦higher charge-offs in our auto loan portfolio due to seasoning of recent growth. 

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $113 million to $4.1 billion in 2016 primarily due to: 

◦higher operating expenses driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio; and 

The increases were primarily due to growth in our auto loan portfolio, partially offset by the continued run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio. 

•Deposits: Period-end deposits increased by $9.2 billion to $181.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015 as a result of strong growth in our deposit products that are sold directly to both existing and new customers. 

•Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate increased by 12 basis points to 1.15% in 2016 compared to 2015. 

Because our Commercial Banking business has loans and investments that generate tax-exempt income or tax credits, we make certain reclassifications to present revenues on a taxable-equivalent basis. 

Our Commercial Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $676 million, $575 million and $570 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

Table 11 summarizes the financial results of our Commercial Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. 

 61Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 11: Commercial Banking Business Results 

Accordingly, we make certain reclassifications within our Commercial Banking business results to present revenues and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated assuming an effective tax rate approximately equal to our federal statutory tax rate (35% for all periods presented), with offsetting reductions to the Other category. 

 62Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(4) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 

(5) Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans, real estate owned (“REO”) and other foreclosed assets. 

◦higher revenue from our commercial investments that generate tax credits; and 

◦higher service charges and other customer-related fees as a result of increased activity across a broad range of products and services provided to our commercial customers. 

◦paydowns in our commercial and industrial loan portfolios; 

◦charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio; and 

◦the transfer of the substantial majority of our remaining taxi medallion lending portfolio from loans held for investment to loans held for sale. 

Average loans held for investment increased by $2.2 billion to $67.4 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by growth across our commercial loan portfolios. 

The nonperforming loan rate decreased by 109 basis points to 0.44% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to: 

◦a combination of improved credit risk ratings, charge-offs and paydowns in our oil and gas portfolio; and 

◦charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio resulting from declines in taxi medallion values and the impact of transferring the substantial majority of our remaining taxi medallion lending portfolio, which was downgraded to nonperforming classification in the third quarter of 2017, from loans held for investment to loans held for sale. 

Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2016 compared to 2015, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 include the following: 

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $351 million to $2.2 billion in 2016 primarily driven by loan growth, including loans obtained in the HFS acquisition. 

 63Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income increased by $91 million to $578 million in 2016 primarily driven by fee-based services, including impacts from the HFS acquisition, and products attributable to our multifamily finance business. 

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses increased by $181 million to $483 million in 2016 primarily driven by higher charge-offs, partially offset by a smaller allowance build, due to continued adverse industry conditions impacting our taxi medallion and oil and gas lending portfolios. 

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $251 million to $1.4 billion in 2016 driven by higher operating expenses due to costs associated with the HFS acquisition and continued growth in our Commercial Banking business. 

•Loans Held for Investment: Period-end loans held for investment increased by $3.7 billion to $66.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015 driven by growth in our commercial loan portfolios. 

•Deposits: Period-end deposits decreased by $391 million to $33.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015. 

Increased credit risk rating downgrades in these same lending portfolios resulted in the nonperforming loan rate increasing by 66 basis points to 1.53% as of December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015. 

Other includes unallocated amounts related to our centralized Corporate Treasury group activities, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management and certain capital management activities. 

•foreign exchange-rate fluctuations on foreign currency-denominated balances; 

•unallocated corporate expenses that do not directly support the operations of the business segments or for which the business segments are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance, such as certain restructuring charges; 

•offsets related to certain line-item reclassifications; and 

•residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments. 

Table 12 summarizes the financial results of our Other category for the periods indicated. 

Accordingly, we make certain reclassifications within our Commercial Banking business results to present revenues and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated assuming an effective tax rate approximately equal to our federal statutory tax rate (35% for all periods presented), with offsetting reductions to the Other category. 

 64Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The loss in 2017 was primarily driven by: 

•charges associated with the estimated impacts of the Tax Act; and 

•higher operating expenses associated with restructuring activities, which primarily consisted of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs, that are the result of exiting certain business activities and locations, as well as the realignment of resources supporting our businesses. 

Net income from continuing operations recorded in the Other category was $165 million in 2016 compared to $54 million in 2015. 

•higher net interest income due to balance sheet growth, as well as the impact of rates on our other treasury-related activities; and 

•lower restructuring charges for severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs as a result of the realignment of our workforce. 

These drivers were partially offset by: 

•higher bank optimization charges and an impairment charge associated with certain acquired intangible and software assets within non-interest expense; 

•lower non-interest income due to rate-driven hedge ineffectiveness; and 

•a reduced income tax benefit as a result of higher income before taxes and increased discrete tax expense, partially offset by increased tax credits. 

Understanding our accounting policies and the extent to which we use management judgment and estimates in applying these policies is integral to understanding our financial statements. 

We have identified the following accounting policies as critical because they require significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 

Management has discussed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 

We also separately reserve for binding unfunded lending commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. 

 65Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Our provision for credit losses in each period is driven by charge-offs, changes to allowance for loan and lease losses, and changes to the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 

We have an established process, using analytical tools and management judgment, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses. 

Key factors that have a significant impact on our allowance for loan and lease losses include assumptions about unemployment rates, home prices and the valuation of commercial properties and other collateral, consumer real estate and automobiles. 

The factors impacting our assessment generally align with those considered in our evaluation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for the Commercial Banking business. 

Although we examine a variety of externally available data, as well as our internal loan performance data, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, our estimation process is subject to risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss and trend information that may not be representative of current conditions and indicative of future performance. 

We continue to accrue finance charges and fees on credit card loans until the account is charged-off; however, when we do not expect full payment of billed finance charges and fees, we reduce the balance of our credit card loan receivables by the amount of finance charges and fees billed but not expected to be collected and exclude this amount from revenue. The finance charge and fee reserve totaled $491 million as of December 31, 2017, compared to $402 million as of December 31, 2016. 

We review and assess the adequacy of the uncollectible finance charge and fee reserve on a quarterly basis. 

Below we describe our process for assessing impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and the key estimates and assumptions involved in this process. 

 66Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. 

Goodwill and intangible assets together represented 4% of our total assets as of both December 31, 2017 and 2016. We did not recognize any goodwill impairment in 2017, 2016 or 2015. See “Note 7—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” for additional information. 

We perform our goodwill impairment test annually on October 1 at a reporting unit level. 

The second step of goodwill impairment testing requires an extensive effort to build the specific reporting unit’s balance sheet for the test based on applicable accounting guidance. If the estimated fair value exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step is not necessary. 

For the purpose of our goodwill impairment testing, we calculate the carrying amount of a reporting unit using an allocated capital approach based on each reporting unit’s specific regulatory capital, economic capital requirements, and underlying risks. The $6.6 billion excess in consolidated stockholder’s equity was primarily attributable to capital allocated to our Other category and other future capital needs such as dividends. 

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit and the associated assets, liabilities and intangible assets, is a subjective process that requires the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment. The results of the 2017 annual impairment test for the Credit Card, Auto, Other Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking reporting units indicated that the estimated fair values of these four reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying amounts. These cash flows and terminal values were then discounted using discount rates based on our external cost of equity with adjustments for the risk inherent in each reporting unit. 

By definition, assumptions used in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit are judgmental and inherently uncertain. 

 67Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Intangible assets with definitive useful lives are amortized over their estimated lives and evaluated for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. There was no meaningful impairment of intangible assets in 2017 or 2015. 

See “Note 7—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” for additional information. 

Fair value measurement of a financial asset or liability is assigned a level based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: 

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 

Level 2: Observable market-based inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 

When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. 

When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs. 

In making this determination, we consider all available information that market participants use to measure the fair value of the financial instrument, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. Significant judgment may be required to determine whether certain financial instruments measured at fair value are classified as Level 2 or Level 3. We discuss changes in the valuation inputs and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our financial instruments, including the extent to which we have relied on significant unobservable inputs to estimate fair value and our process for corroborating these inputs, in “Note 17—Fair Value Measurement.” 

Our governance framework provides for independent oversight and segregation of duties. 

Groups independent of our trading and investing functions participate in the review and validation process. 

 68Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The FVC regularly reviews and approves our fair valuations to ensure that our valuation practices are consistent with industry standards and adhere to regulatory and accounting guidance. 

The Model Risk Office validates all models and provides ongoing monitoring of their performance. 

The VAC is only required to convene to review escalated valuation disputes. 

We offer products, primarily credit cards, which include programs that allow members to earn rewards, that can be redeemed for cash (primarily in the form of statement credits), gift cards, airline tickets or merchandise, based on account activity. The amount of rewards that a customer earns varies based on the terms and conditions of the rewards program and product. 

We use financial models to estimate ultimate redemption rates of rewards earned to date by current card members based on historical redemption trends, current enrollee redemption behavior, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. Changes in the ultimate redemption rate and weighted-average redemption cost have the effect of either increasing or decreasing the reserve through the current period provision by an amount estimated to cover the cost of all rewards earned but not yet redeemed by card members as of the end of the reporting period. We recognized customer rewards expense of $3.7 billion, $3.2 billion and $2.7 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to express the views of the Staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance regarding application of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, (“Topic 740”) in the reporting period that includes the date the Tax Act was signed into law. For any specific tax impacts for which a reasonable estimate cannot be determined, a provisional amount should not be reported and Topic 740 should be applied using the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately before the Tax Act. 

Finally, the bulletin requires disclosures for any income tax impacts of the Tax Act that are accounted for under a measurement period approach. 

 69Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Accordingly, we have recognized provisional amounts for the impacts of the Tax Act based on these reasonable estimates. Additionally, we continue to analyze other information and regulatory guidance, and accordingly, we may record additional provisional amounts or adjustments to provisional amounts during the measurement period ending no later than December 2018. 

We provide the additional disclosures required by this bulletin in “Note 16—Income Taxes.” 

See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on accounting standards adopted in 2017, as well as recently issued accounting standards not yet required to be adopted and the expected impact of these changes in accounting standards. 

The level and composition of our capital may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our business and market environments. 

Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action 

Moreover, the Banks, as insured depository institutions, are subject to prompt corrective action (“PCA”) capital regulations. 

The Basel III Capital Rule amended both the Basel I and Basel II Advanced Approaches frameworks, established a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement and set higher minimum capital ratio requirements. 

As a result, we have undertaken a multi-year process of implementing the Advanced Approaches regime for calculating risk-weighted assets and regulatory capital levels. 

The Basel III Capital Rule also introduced the supplementary leverage ratio for all Advanced Approaches banking organizations with a minimum requirement of 3.0%. As an Advanced Approaches banking organization, however, we were required to calculate and publicly disclose our supplementary leverage ratio beginning in the first quarter of 2015. 

The Market Risk Rule supplements both the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches by requiring institutions subject to the Market Risk Rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading portfolios. 

 70Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” below for additional information. 

Additionally, in December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized certain modifications to the international Basel III capital standards, which would require rulemaking in the United States prior to becoming effective for United States banking organizations. There is uncertainty regarding how any of the proposed changes may impact the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches. 

Table 13 provides a comparison of our regulatory capital ratios under the Basel III Standardized Approach subject to the applicable transition provisions, the regulatory minimum capital adequacy ratios and the PCA well-capitalized level for each ratio, where applicable, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 13: Capital Ratios under Basel III(1) 

The inclusion of AOCI and the adjustments related to intangible assets are phased-in at 60% for 2016, 80% for 2017 and 100% for 2018. 

(2) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on common equity Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

(3) Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

(4) Total capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

(5) Tier 1 leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets. 

(6) Supplementary leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by total leverage exposure. 

The Company exceeded the minimum capital requirements and each of the Banks exceeded the minimum regulatory requirements and were well capitalized under PCA requirements as of both December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

 71Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The Basel III Capital Rule requires banks to maintain a capital conservation buffer, composed of common equity Tier 1 capital, of 2.5% above the regulatory minimum ratios. 

For banks subject to the Advanced Approaches, including the Company and the Banks, the capital conservation buffer may be supplemented by an incremental countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% (once fully phased-in) composed of common equity Tier 1 capital and set at the discretion of the Federal Banking Agencies. As of December 31, 2017, the countercyclical capital buffer was zero percent in the United States. 

For 2017, the minimum capital requirement plus capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer for common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 5.75%, 7.25% and 9.25%, respectively, for the Company and the Banks. 

Additionally, banks designated as global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) are subject to an additional regulatory capital surcharge above the combined capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers established by the Basel III Capital Rule. 

The following table compares our common equity Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets as of December 31, 2017, subject to applicable transition provisions, to our estimated fully phased-in common equity Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets, as it applies for Advanced Approaches banks such as ourselves that have not yet exited parallel run. As we continue to engage with our regulators, there could be further changes to the calculation. 

Table 14: Regulatory Capital Reconciliations between Basel III Transition to Fully Phased-in 

(1) Includes credit and market risk-weighted assets. 

(2) Adjustments include higher risk weights for items that are included in capital based on the threshold deduction approach, such as mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets. 

(3) Estimated common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated by dividing estimated common equity Tier 1 capital by estimated risk-weighted assets, which are both calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach, as it applies when fully phased-in for Advanced Approaches banks that have not yet exited parallel run. 

 72Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. Under the Basel III Capital Rule, when we complete our parallel run for the Advanced Approaches, our minimum risk-based capital requirement will be determined by the greater of our risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches. 

Capital Planning and Regulatory Stress Testing 

On June 28, 2017, the Federal Reserve completed its 2017 CCAR and did not object to our proposed capital plan. As a result, in June 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.85 billion of shares of our common stock from the third quarter of 2017 through the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the quarterly dividend on our common stock of $0.40 per share. If the Federal Reserve objects to the resubmitted capital plan, it may restrict subsequent capital distributions. 

On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.40 per share, payable on February 23, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of the business on February 12, 2018. Based on those declarations, we will pay approximately $196 million in common equity dividends and approximately $52 million in total preferred dividends in the first quarter of 2018. 

We paid common stock dividends of $0.40 per share in each quarter of 2017. 

 73Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 15: Preferred Stock Dividends Paid Per Share 

The declaration and payment of dividends to our stockholders, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends to stockholders. 

Through the end of the second quarter of 2017, we repurchased approximately $2.2 billion of shares of common stock as part of the 2016 Stock Repurchase Program. 

The timing and exact amount of any future common stock repurchases will depend on various factors, including regulatory approval, market conditions, opportunities for growth, our capital position and the amount of retained earnings. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfer of Funds.” 

We execute against our risk framework with the “Three Lines of Defense” risk management model to demonstrate and structure the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities in the organization for taking and managing risk. 

As the business owner, the first line is responsible for identifying, assessing, managing and controlling that risk. The “Third Line of Defense” is comprised of our Internal Audit and Credit Review functions. The second line assists in determining risk appetite and the strategies, policies and structures for managing risks. 

 74Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

independent and objective assurance to senior management and to the Board of Directors that first and second line risk management and internal control systems and its governance processes are well-designed and working as intended. 

The risk framework is also used to guide design of risk programs and performance of risk activity within each risk category and across the entire enterprise. 

Our risk framework, which is built around governance, processes and people, consists of the following eight key elements: 

Establish Governance Processes, Accountabilities and Risk Appetites 

The starting point of our risk framework is the establishment of governance processes, accountabilities and risk appetites. Management reinforces expectations at the various levels of the organization. 

Identify and Assess Risks and Ownership 

This portion of the framework clarifies the importance of strong first-line management and accountability for identifying and assessing risk while specifying the role of the second line to identify and assess risk, particularly when taking on new initiatives. 

Develop and Operate Controls, Monitoring and Mitigation Plans 

We develop, operate and monitor controls to manage risk within tolerance levels. Controls may prevent risks from occurring or measure the amount of risk being taken so that the amount may be proactively managed. The first line develops controls to oversee and manage identified risks. 

Test and Detect Control Gaps and Perform Corrective Action 

These activities provide the second and third lines of defense with the ability to reduce the likelihood of unauthorized or unplanned risk taking within the organization. 

Escalate Key Risks and Gaps to Executive Management and when appropriate, the Board of Directors 

Escalation in the second and third lines of defense can also demonstrate part of their core responsibilities of effective challenge. Through escalation in the first line, decisions requiring judgment can be raised to executives who have the broadest possible context and experience to make challenging decisions. 

Calculate and Allocate Capital in Alignment with Risk Management and Measurement Processes (including Stress Testing) 

As such, it is important that capital planning processes be well linked with risk management practices to ensure the appropriate capital protections are in place for the safety and soundness of the company. 

Support with the Right Culture, Talent and Skills 

The right culture, talent and skills are critical to effective risk management. Skills necessary to effectively manage risk are reinforced through performance management systems. 

 75Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Enabled by the Right Data, Infrastructure and Programs 

Data, infrastructure and programs are key enablers of our risk management processes and practices. 

Risk appetite defines the parameters for taking and accepting risks and are used by management and our Board of Directors to make business decisions. In addition to his broader management responsibilities, our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing the strategy and mission of our organization, determining and leading our culture, and reviewing and providing input into our risk appetite. While first line executives manage risk on a day-to-day basis, the Chief Risk Officer provides effective challenge and independent oversight to ensure that risks are within the appetite and specific limits established by the Board of Directors. 

We apply our risk framework to protect our company from the eight major categories of risk that we are exposed to through our business activities. 

•Compliance Risk: Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations. 

•Credit Risk: Credit risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from an obligor’s failure to meet the terms of any contract with the Company or otherwise perform as agreed; 

•Legal Risk: Legal risk is the risk of material adverse impact due to: new and changed laws and regulations; interpretations of law; drafting, interpretation and enforceability of contracts; adverse decisions/consequences arising from litigation or regulatory action; the establishment, management and governance of our legal entity structure; and the failure to seek/follow appropriate Legal counsel when needed; 

•Liquidity Risk: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its future financial obligations as they come due, or invest in future asset growth because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time period; 

•Market Risk: Market risk is the risk that an institution’s earnings or the economic value of equity could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or other market factors; 

•Operational Risk: Operational risk is the risk of loss, capital impairment, adverse customer experience, or reputational impact resulting from failure to comply with policies and procedures, failed internal processes or systems, or from external events; 

•Reputation Risk: Reputation risk is the risk to market value, recruitment and retention of talented associates and maintenance of a loyal customer base due to the negative perceptions of our internal and external constituents regarding our business strategies and activities; and 

•Strategic Risk: Strategic risk is the risk of a material impact on current or anticipated earnings, capital, franchise or enterprise value arising from: (i) the Company’s competitive and market position and evolving forces in the industry that can affect that position; (ii) lack of responsiveness to these conditions; (iii) strategic decisions to change the Company’s scale, market position or operating model; or (iv) failure to appropriately consider implementation risks inherent in the Company’s strategy. 

Below we provide an overview of how we manage our eight primary risk categories. 

 76Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

In response, we continuously evaluate the regulatory environment and proactively adjust our compliance risk program to fully address these expectations. 

The program also establishes regular compliance reporting to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors. 

They regularly monitor and report on the efficacy of their compliance controls and Corporate Compliance periodically independently tests to validate the effectiveness of business controls. 

Our most important tool in this endeavor is sound underwriting. In commercial underwriting, we generally require strong cash flow, collateral and covenants and guarantees. 

The Chief Consumer Credit Officer and the Chief Commercial Credit Officer have formal approval authority for various types and levels of credit decisions, including individual commercial loan transactions. These responsibilities are fulfilled by the Chief Consumer Credit Officer and the Chief Commercial Credit Officer who are responsible for evaluating the risk implications of credit strategy and for oversight of credit for both the existing portfolio and any new credit investments. 

The standards in each area provide a framework comprising specific objectives and control processes. We use a number of quantitative and qualitative factors to manage credit risk, including setting credit risk limits and guidelines for each of our lines of business. We monitor performance relative to these guidelines and report results and any required mitigating actions to appropriate senior management committees and our Board of Directors. 

This evaluation and guidance is based on an assessment of the type and degree of legal risk associated with the internal business area practices and activities and of the controls the business has in place to mitigate legal risks. 

The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Chief Market and Liquidity Risk Officer, are responsible for the establishment of liquidity risk management policies and standards for governance and monitoring of liquidity risk at a corporate level. 

 77Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

action plans in accordance with our Contingency Funding Plan. 

From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a sizable liquidity reserve comprised of cash, high-quality, unencumbered securities and committed collateralized credit lines. We seek to mitigate liquidity risk strategically and tactically. 

We manage market risk exposure, which is principally driven by balance sheet interest rate risk, centrally and establish quantitative risk limits to monitor and control our exposure. 

Investment securities and derivatives are the main levers for the management of interest rate and foreign exchange risk. In addition to using industry accepted techniques to analyze and measure interest rate and foreign exchange risk, we perform sensitivity analysis to identify our risk exposures under a broad range of scenarios. 

Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments as outlined in our policy to actively manage market risk exposure. 

We have implemented appropriate operational risk management policies, standards, processes and controls to enable the delivery of high quality and consistent customer experiences and to achieve business objectives in a controlled manner. 

Corporate Operational Risk Management enforces these practices and delivers reporting of operational risk results to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors. 

We recognize that reputation risk is of particular concern for financial institutions and, increasingly, technology companies, in the current environment. The heightened expectations of internal and external stakeholders have made corporate culture, values and conduct pressure points for individuals and advocates voicing concerns or seeking change. Day-to-day activities are controlled by the frameworks set forth in our Reputation Risk Management Policy and other risk management policies. 

 78Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

These items provide input for development of the Company’s strategy led by the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives. 

Our loan portfolio accounts for the substantial majority of our credit risk exposure. 

We provide additional information on credit risk related to our investment securities portfolio under “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Investment Securities” and credit risk related to derivative transactions in “Note 10—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” 

We provide a variety of lending products. 

Credit card accounts are primarily underwritten using an automated underwriting system based on predictive models that we have developed. Our credit cards generally have variable interest rates. The underwriting criteria, which are customized for individual products and marketing programs, are established based on an analysis of the net present value of expected revenues, expenses and losses, subject to further analysis using a variety of stress conditions. 

We continue to service our existing home loan portfolio. We previously originated residential mortgage and home equity loans through our branches, direct marketing and dedicated home loan officers. In general, our underwriting policy limits for such loans were: 

◦a maximum LTV ratio of 90% for loans without mortgage insurance; 

◦a maximum LTV ratio of 97% for loans with mortgage insurance or for home equity products; 

◦a maximum debt-to-income ratio of 50%; and 

◦a maximum loan amount of $3 million. 

 79Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

We might, in limited instances, have used automated valuation models to determine home values. We generally retained non-conforming mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit. 

•Commercial: We offer a range of commercial lending products, including loans secured by commercial real estate and loans to middle market commercial and industrial companies. Where relevant, we evaluate and appraise underlying collateral and guarantees. Our commercial loans may have a fixed or variable interest rate; however, the majority of our commercial loans have variable rates. We assign a risk rating and establish a monitoring schedule for loans based on the risk profile of the borrower, industry segment, source of repayment, the underlying collateral and guarantees (if any) and current market conditions. 

Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 

Table 16 presents the composition of our portfolio of loans held for investment, including PCI loans, by portfolio segment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 16: Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 

Our credit card loan portfolio is geographically diversified due to our product and marketing approach, with higher concentrations in California, Texas, New York, Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Ohio. 

 80Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Our home loan portfolio is concentrated in California, New York, Maryland, Virginia, Illinois, New Jersey and Texas. 

Our commercial banking loan portfolio is originated in most regions of the United States with a concentration in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, as well as in Texas, California and Louisiana. 

We provide additional information on the geographic concentration, by loan category, of our loan portfolio in “Note 4—Loans.” 

Table 17 summarizes our commercial loans held for investment portfolio by industry classification as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 17: Commercial Loans by Industry 

Our portfolio of loans includes certain of our consumer and commercial loans obtained in business acquisitions that were recorded at fair value at acquisition and subsequently accounted for using the guidance for accounting for PCI loans and debt securities, which is based upon expected cash flows. 

The difference between the fair value at acquisition and expected cash flows represents the accretable yield, which is recognized in interest income over the life of the loans. We regularly update our estimate of expected principal and interest to be collected from these loans and evaluate the results for each accounting pool that was established at acquisition based on loans with common risk characteristics. Probable decreases in expected cash flows would trigger the recognition of an allowance for loan and lease losses through our provision for credit losses. 

 81Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

In addition, PCI loans are not classified as delinquent or nonperforming, as we expect to collect our net investment in these loans and the nonaccretable difference is expected to absorb the majority of the losses associated with these loans. Charge-offs on these loans are not recorded until the expected credit losses within the nonaccretable difference are depleted. 

Table 18 presents the break out of our total home loan portfolio by lien priority for PCI loans and remaining loans. 

Table 18: Home Loans—Risk Profile by Lien Priority 

See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our accounting policies for PCI loans, delinquent loans, nonperforming loans, net charge-offs and troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) for each of our loan categories. 

 82Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 19 presents the maturities of our loans held for investment portfolio as of December 31, 2017. 

We report fixed-rate credit card loans with introductory rates that expire after a certain period of time as due in one year or less. 

(2) We report the maturity period for the home loan portfolio included in the Consumer Banking business based on the earlier of the next re-pricing or contractual maturity date of the loan. 

We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to assess and manage our exposure to credit risk. Key metrics we track in evaluating the credit quality of our loan portfolio include delinquency and nonperforming asset rates, as well as net charge-off rates and our internal risk ratings of larger-balance commercial loans. Trends in delinquency rates are one of the primary indicators of credit risk within our consumer loan portfolios, particularly in our credit card loan portfolios, as changes in delinquency rates can provide an early warning of changes in credit losses. 

We also use borrower credit scores for subprime classification, for competitive benchmarking and, in some cases, to drive product segmentation decisions. 

 83Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The following table provides details on the credit scores of our domestic credit card and auto loans held for investment portfolios as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

(1) Percentages represent period-end loans held for investment in each credit score category. We approximate non-FICO credit scores to comparable FICO scores for consistency purposes. 

Balances for which no credit score is available or the credit score is invalid are included in the 620 or below category. 

We present information in the section below on the credit performance of our loan portfolio, including the key metrics we use in tracking changes in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. 

See “Note 4—Loans” in this Report for additional credit quality information, and see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our accounting policies for delinquent and nonperforming loans, net charge-offs and TDRs for each of our loan categories. 

Our 30+ day delinquency metrics include all loans held for investment that are 30 or more days past due, whereas our 30+ day performing delinquency metrics include loans that are 30 or more days past due but are currently classified as performing and accruing interest. We provide additional information on our credit quality metrics above under “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.” 

 84Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 21 presents our 30+ day performing delinquency rates and 30+ day delinquency rates of our portfolio of loans held for investment, including PCI loans, by portfolio segment, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category, including PCI loans as applicable. 

 85Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 22 presents an aging and geography of 30+ day delinquent loans as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 22: Aging and Geography of 30+ Day Delinquent Loans 

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by total period-end loans held for investment, including PCI loans as applicable. 

Table 23 summarizes loans that were 90+ days delinquent as to interest or principal, and still accruing interest as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. While domestic credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until the loan is charged off, we reduce the balance of our credit card receivables by the amount of finance charges and fees billed but not expected to be collected and exclude this amount from revenue. 

Table 23: 90+ Day Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest 

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category, including PCI loans as applicable. 

Nonperforming loans include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. 

 86Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

We do not classify loans held for sale as nonperforming, as they are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. 

Table 24: Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets(1) 

(2) Nonperforming loan rates are calculated based on nonperforming loans for each category divided by period-end total loans held for investment for each respective category. 

Other assets includes repossessed assets obtained in satisfaction of auto loans and the net realizable value of certain partially charged-off auto loans, which will continue to decline over time. 

(6) The denominators used in calculating nonperforming asset rates consist of total loans held for investment and total other nonperforming assets. 

 87Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Net charge-offs consist of the unpaid principal balance of loans held for investment that we determine to be uncollectible, net of recovered amounts. Generally, costs to recover charged-off loans are recorded as collection expenses and included in our consolidated statements of income as a component of other non-interest expense as incurred. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our charge-off policy for each of our loan categories. 

Table 25 presents our net charge-off amounts and rates, by portfolio segment, in 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

(1) Net charge-off (recovery) rate is calculated by dividing net charge-offs by average loans held for investment for the period for each loan category. 

 88Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

As part of our loss mitigation efforts, we may provide short-term (three to twelve months) or long-term (greater than twelve months) modifications to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty to improve long-term collectability of the loan and to avoid the need for foreclosure or repossession of collateral. 

Table 26 presents our recorded investment of loans modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, which excludes loan modifications that do not meet the definition of a TDR, and PCI loans, which we track and report separately. 

In the Credit Card business, the majority of our credit card loans modified in TDRs involve reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. 

In certain bankruptcy discharges, the loan is written down to the collateral value and the charged off amount is reported as principal reduction. Their impairment is determined using the present value of expected cash flows or a collateral evaluation for certain auto and home loans where the collateral value is lower than the recorded investment. 

In the Commercial Banking business, the majority of loans modified in TDRs receive an extension, with a portion of these loans receiving an interest rate reduction or a gross balance reduction. 

We provide additional information on modified loans accounted for as TDRs, including the performance of those loans subsequent to modification, in “Note 4—Loans.” 

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan. Loans defined as individually impaired include larger-balance commercial nonperforming loans and TDRs. 

 89Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

These amounts include TDRs of $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 

The allowance for loan and lease losses is increased through the provision for credit losses and reduced by net charge-offs. 

Table 27 presents changes in our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments for 2017 and 2016, and details by portfolio segment for the provision for credit losses, charge-offs and recoveries. 

 90Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 27: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Activity 

(1)  Primarily consists of the legacy loan portfolio of our discontinued GreenPoint mortgage operations. 

(2) Represents foreign currency translation adjustments and the net impact of loan transfers and sales. 

 91Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 28 presents the allowance coverage ratios as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

(1) Allowance coverage ratios by loan category are calculated based on the allowance for loan and lease losses for each specified portfolio segment divided by period-end loans held for investment within the specified loan category. 

Our allowance for loan and lease losses increased by $999 million to $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016, and the allowance coverage ratio increased by 30 basis points to 2.95% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016. 

•an allowance build in our domestic credit card loan portfolio primarily due to increasing losses from recent vintages and portfolio seasoning; and 

•an allowance build in our auto loan portfolio due to higher losses associated with growth. 

These increases were partially offset by an allowance decrease in our commercial loan portfolio primarily driven by charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio, as well as reduced exposure and improved credit risk ratings in our oil and gas portfolio. 

We have established liquidity practices that are intended to ensure that we have sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover our funding requirements and maintain adequate reserves to withstand the potential impact of deposit attrition or diminished liquidity in the funding markets. 

Table 29 below presents the composition of our liquidity reserves as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Our liquidity reserves increased by $10.2 billion to $84.3 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to the decrease in our FHLB advances outstanding and an increase in our cash and cash equivalents. 

 92Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

We are subject to the Final Liquidity Coverage Ratio Rule (“Final LCR Rule”) issued by the Federal Banking Agencies. The Final LCR Rule came into effect in January 2015 and required us to calculate the LCR daily starting July 1, 2016. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. 

We also filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC on January 12, 2016, which expires in January 2019 and allows us to periodically offer and sell up to $23 billion of securitized debt obligations from our credit card loan securitization trust. There is no limit under this shelf registration to the amount or number of such securities that we may offer and sell, subject to market conditions. 

The ability to draw down funding is based on membership status and the amount is dependent upon the Banks’ ability to post collateral. Our membership with the Federal Reserve is secured by our investment in Federal Reserve stock, totaling $1.2 billion as of both December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

The Company’s primary source of funding comes from deposits, which provide a stable and relatively low cost of funds. 

Table 30 provides the composition of deposits as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, as well as a comparison of average balances, interest expense and average deposit interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

Table 30: Deposits Composition and Average Deposits Interest Rates 

 93Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(1) Includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts. 

(2) Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts (“MMDA”). 

Our deposits include brokered deposits, which we obtained through third-party intermediaries. 

The FDIC limits the acceptance of brokered deposits by well-capitalized insured depository institutions and, with a waiver from the FDIC, by adequately-capitalized institutions. 

Our funding and liquidity management activities factor into the expected maturities of these deposits. 

Table 31: Maturities of Large-Denomination Domestic Time Deposits—$100,000 or More 

We access the capital markets to meet our funding needs through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt obligations, and federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. 

Our short-term borrowings include those borrowings with an original contractual maturity of one year or less and do not include the current portion of long-term debt. 

 94Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Our long-term debt, which primarily consists of securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, and long-term FHLB advances, increased by $237 million to $59.7 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016, primarily attributable to net issuances of senior and subordinated notes and securitized debt obligations, partially offset by a decrease in our FHLB advances outstanding. 

The following table summarizes issuances of securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

(1) Includes $2.5 billion of securitized debt assumed in the Cabela’s acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

Rating agencies base their ratings on numerous factors, including liquidity, capital adequacy, asset quality, quality of earnings and the probability of systemic support. Our credit ratings impact our ability to access capital markets and our borrowing costs. 

Table 33 provides a summary of the credit ratings for the senior unsecured long-term debt of Capital One Financial Corporation, COBNA and CONA as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 33: Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt Credit Ratings 

As of February 15, 2018, S&P and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) have us on a stable outlook. 

The actual timing and amounts of future cash payments may differ from the amounts presented below due to a number of factors, such as discretionary debt repurchases. Table 34 excludes short-term obligations such as trade payables, representation and warranty reserves, and obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans, which are discussed in more detail in “Note 19—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others” and “Note 15—Employee Benefit Plans.” 

 95Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(1) Includes only those interest-bearing deposits which have a contractual maturity date. 

(3) Other borrowings primarily consists of FHLB advances. 

(4) Represents substantial agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms. 

Below we provide additional information about our primary sources of market risk, our market risk management strategies and the measures we use to evaluate our market risk exposure. 

We also have exposure to foreign exchange risk and customer-related trading risk, both of which we believe are minimal after considering the impact of our associated risk management activities discussed below. 

Banks are inevitably exposed to interest rate risk due to differences in the timing between the maturities or re-pricing of assets and liabilities. 

Our primary exposure to foreign exchange risk is related to the operations of our international businesses in the U.K. and Canada. The largest foreign exchange exposure arising from these operations is the funding they are provided in the Great British pound (“GBP”) and the Canadian dollar (“CAD”), respectively. 

 96Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

We apply hedge accounting to both our intercompany funding hedges and our net investment hedges, with the primary net investments subject to hedging denominated in GBP. We use foreign currency derivative contracts as net investment hedges to manage our AOCI exposure. 

We measure our total exposure from non-dollar-denominated intercompany borrowings to our international businesses by regularly tracking the value of the loans made to our foreign operations and the associated forward foreign currency derivative contracts we use to hedge them. 

We measure our total exposure in non-dollar-denominated equity by regularly tracking the value of net equity invested in our foreign operations, the largest of which is in our U.K. and Canadian operations. Our gross equity exposures in our U.K. and Canadian operations were 1.6 billion and 1.5 billion GBP as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1.0 billion CAD and 863 million CAD as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

As a result of our derivative management activities, we believe our net exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimal. 

We offer various interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity derivatives as an accommodation to customers within our Commercial Banking business and offset the majority of these exposures through derivative transactions with other counterparties. 

VaR is a statistical-based risk measure used to estimate the potential loss from adverse market movements in a normal market environment. We use internal models to produce a daily VaR measure of the market risk of all customer-related trading exposures. 

For further information on our customer-related trading exposures, see “Note 10—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” 

Although the majority of our derivatives are interest rate swaps, we also use a variety of other derivative instruments, including caps, floors, options, futures and forward contracts, to manage both our interest rate and foreign currency risk. Use of derivatives is included in our current market risk management policies. The outstanding notional amount of our derivative contracts increased to $196.6 billion as of December 31, 2017 from $142.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 primarily driven by an increase in our hedging activities. 

 97Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Our objective is to manage our asset and liability risk position and exposure to market risk in accordance with these policies and prescribed limits based on prevailing market conditions and long-term expectations. We provide additional information below in “Economic Value of Equity.” 

We consider the impact on both net interest income and economic value of equity in measuring and managing our interest rate risk. We use this 100-basis points decrease as our largest magnitude declining interest rate scenario, since a scenario where interest rates would decline by 200 basis points is unlikely. 

This sensitivity measure estimates the impact on our projected 12-month baseline interest rate-sensitive revenue resulting from movements in interest rates. Interest rate-sensitive revenue consists of net interest income and certain components of other non-interest income significantly impacted by movements in interest rates, including changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights and free-standing interest rate swaps. At the current level of interest rates, our net interest income remains mostly unchanged in the -50, +50 and +100 basis points scenarios and decreases slightly in the -100 and +200 basis points scenarios. 

Our economic value of equity sensitivity measure estimates the impact on the net present value of our assets and liabilities, including derivative hedging activity, resulting from movements in interest rates. 

Calculating our economic value of equity and its sensitivity to interest rates requires projecting cash flows for assets, liabilities and derivative instruments and discounting those cash flows at the appropriate discount rates. 

Our current economic value of equity sensitivity profile demonstrates that our economic value of equity generally decreases as interest rates increase indicating that the economic value of our assets and derivative positions is more sensitive to interest rate changes than our liabilities. 

Table 35 shows the estimated percentage impact on our projected baseline net interest income and economic value of equity calculated under the methodology described above as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

 98Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table 35: Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis 

In addition to these industry standard measures, we will continue to factor into our internal interest rate risk management decisions the potential impact of alternative interest rate scenarios, such as stressed rate shocks as well as steepening and flattening yield curve scenarios. 

We regularly evaluate, update and enhance these assumptions, models and analytical tools as we believe appropriate to reflect our best assessment of the market environment and the expected behavior patterns of our existing assets and liabilities. 

The strategic actions that management may take to manage our balance sheet may differ significantly from our projections, which could cause our actual earnings and economic value of equity sensitivities to differ substantially from the above sensitivity analysis. 

 99Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table A—Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 

 100Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(3) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing loans in each delinquency status category and geographic region as of the end of the period by the total loan portfolio. 

(4) Excluding the impact of the Cabela’s acquisition, the total 30+ day performing delinquency rate would have been 3.28%. 

 101Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table C—Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 

(1) Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, partially charged-off auto loans previously presented within other assets were prospectively included within loans held for investment. 

(2) Nonperforming loan rate is calculated based on total nonperforming loans divided by period-end total loans held for investment. 

(3) The denominator used in calculating the total nonperforming assets ratio consists of total loans held for investment and total other nonperforming assets. 

 102Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

 103Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Table E—Summary of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 

 104Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

While our non-GAAP measures are widely used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services companies, they may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The following tables present reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable amounts measured in accordance with GAAP. 

Table F—Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures and Calculation of Regulatory Capital Measures 

 105Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

(1) Goodwill and intangible assets includes impact of related deferred taxes. 

(2) Noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and Tier 1 capital instruments include related surplus. 

(3) TCE ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated by dividing the period-end TCE by period-end tangible assets. 

Prior to January 1, 2014, we calculated regulatory capital under Basel I. 

(5) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on common equity Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

(6) Tier 1 common capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure under Basel I calculated based on Tier 1 common capital divided by Basel I risk-weighted assets. 

(7) Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

(8)Total capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

Tier 1 leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets. 

 106Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

See “MD&A—Capital Management” for additional information. 

Prior to January 1, 2015 risk-weighted assets were calculated under Basel I. 

(12) Amounts presented are net of tax. 

(13) Amounts based on transition provisions for regulatory capital deductions and adjustments of 20% for 2014, 40% for 2015, 60% for 2016 and 80% for 2017. 

 107Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Accordingly, the sum of each quarterly amount may not agree to the year-to-date total. 

 108Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

2016 Stock Repurchase Program: On June 29, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of shares of our common stock from the third quarter of 2016 through the end of the second quarter of 2017. 

In December 2017, the Board of Directors reduced the authorized repurchases of our common stock to up to $1.0 billion for the remaining 2017 CCAR period, which ends June 30, 2018. 

Annual Report: References to our “2017 Form 10-K” or “2017 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 

Banks: Refers to COBNA and CONA. 

Basel Committee: The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 

Basel III Advanced Approaches: The Basel III Advanced Approaches is mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated total on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. 

Basel III Capital Rule: The Federal Baking Agencies issued a rule in July 2013 implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee as well as certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions. 

Basel III Standardized Approach: The Basel III Capital Rule modified Basel I to create the Basel III Standardized Approach, which requires for Basel III Advanced Approaches banking organizations that have yet to exit parallel run to use the Basel III Standardized Approach to calculate regulatory capital, including capital ratios, subject to transition provisions. 

Cabela’s acquisition: On September 25, 2017, we completed the acquisition from Synovus Bank of credit card assets and related liabilities of World’s Foremost Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cabela’s Incorporated. 

Capital One: Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

Carrying value (with respect to loans): The amount at which a loan is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. 

CECL: In June 2016, the FASB issued revised guidance for impairments on financial instruments. 

COBNA: Capital One Bank (USA), National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products. 

Common equity Tier 1 capital: Calculated as the sum of common equity, related surplus and retained earnings, and accumulated other comprehensive income net of applicable phase-ins, less goodwill and intangibles net of associated deferred tax liabilities and applicable phase-ins, less other deductions, as defined by regulators. 

Company: Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

CONA: Capital One, National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. 

Credit risk: The risk of loss from an obligor’s failure to meet the terms of any contract or otherwise fail to perform as agreed. 

 109Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Derivative: A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices. 

Discontinued operations: The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management’s intention to sell the component. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”): Regulatory reform legislation signed into law on July 21, 2010. 

Exchange Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”): A language for the electronic communication of business and financial data. 

Federal Banking Agencies: The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

Federal Reserve: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 

FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical modeling software created by FICO (formerly known as “Fair Isaac Corporation”) utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus. 

Final LCR Rule: In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued final rules implementing the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio in the United States. 

Foreign currency derivative contracts: An agreement to exchange contractual amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates. 

Foreign exchange contracts: Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms. 

GreenPoint: Refers to our wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc., which was closed in 2007. 

Examples of U.S. government agencies include Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”). 

HFS acquisition: On December 1, 2015, we acquired the Healthcare Financial Services business of General Electric Capital Corporation, which provides financing to companies in various healthcare sectors, including hospitals, senior housing, medical offices, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and healthcare technology. 

Impaired loans: A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will not be able to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan. 

Interest rate sensitivity: The exposure to interest rate movements. 

Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities. 

Investment grade: Represents Moody’s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard & Poor’s or DBRS long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings. 

Investor entities: Entities that invest in community development entities (“CDE”) that provide debt financing to businesses and non-profit entities in low-income and rural communities. 

Leverage ratio: Tier 1 capital divided by average assets after certain adjustments, as defined by the regulators. 

Liquidity risk: The risk that the Company will not be able to meet its future financial obligations as they come due, or invest in future asset growth because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time period. 

 110Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio: The relationship expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e., residential real estate, autos, etc.) 

Managed presentation: A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. 

Market risk: The risk that an institution’s earnings or the economic value of equity could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other market factors. 

Master netting agreement: An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract. 

Mortgage-backed security (“MBS”): An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and interest payments of a set of mortgage loans. 

Mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”): The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. 

Net interest margin: The result of dividing net interest income by average interest-earning assets. 

Nonperforming loans: Loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. 

North Fork: North Fork Bancorporation, Inc., which was acquired by the Company in 2006. 

Option-ARM loans: The option-ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate mortgage loan that initially provides the borrower with the monthly option to make a fully-amortizing, interest-only or minimum fixed payment. 

Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”): An impairment charge taken on a security whose fair value has fallen below the carrying value on the balance sheet and whose value is not expected to recover through the holding period of the security. 

Purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans: Loans acquired in a business combination that were recorded at fair value at acquisition and subsequently accounted for based on cash flows expected to be collected in accordance with ASC 310-30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. 

Public Fund deposits: Deposits that are derived from a variety of political subdivisions such as school districts and municipalities. 

Purchase volume: Includes purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period for loans both classified as held for investment and held for sale. 

Rating agency: An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of default of an issue or issuer and assigns a rating to that issue or issuer. 

Recorded investment: The amount of the investment in a loan which includes any direct write-down of the investment. 

Repurchase agreement: An instrument used to raise short-term funds whereby securities are sold with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date. 

Restructuring charges: Charges associated with the realignment of resources supporting various businesses, primarily consisting of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs and impairment of certain assets related to business locations and activities being exited. 

Return on average assets: Calculated based on income from continuing operations, net of tax, for the period divided by average total assets for the period. 

Our calculation of return on average common equity may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. 

 111Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Return on average tangible common equity: A non-GAAP financial measure calculated based on the sum of (i) income from continuing operations, net of tax; (ii) less dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating securities; and (iii) less preferred stock dividends, for the period, divided by average tangible common equity. 

Risk-weighted assets: Consist of on- and off-balance sheet assets that are assigned to one of several broad risk categories and weighted by factors representing their risk and potential for default. 

Securitized debt obligations: A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income assets. 

For purposes of auto lending in our Consumer Banking business, we generally consider FICO scores of 620 or below to be subprime. 

Tax Act: The Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 enacted on December 22, 2017. 

Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill. 

Troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”): A TDR is deemed to occur when the Company modifies the contractual terms of a loan agreement by granting a concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty. 

U.K. PPI Reserve: U.K. payment protection insurance customer refund reserve. 

U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 

Unfunded commitments: Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date. 

Variable interest entity (“VIE”): An entity that (i) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (ii) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity’s operations; and/or (iii) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity’s losses or return. 

 112Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 

CCP: Central Counterparty Clearinghouse, or Central Clearinghouse 

CIFG: CIFG Assurance North America, Inc. (“U.S. 

COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 

Fannie Mae: Federal National Mortgage Association 

FDICIA: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 

FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 

FIRREA: Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act 

 113Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Freddie Mac: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 

Ginnie Mae: Government National Mortgage Association 

HELOCs: Home equity lines of credit 

OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

SEC: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 

 114Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 