Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company” or “Capital One”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through branches, the internet and other distribution channels. 

As of December 31, 2017, our principal subsidiaries included: 

•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and 

•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. 

The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the “Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2017 Form 10-K” or “2017 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 

In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and other consumer lending products in markets across the United States. We were the third largest issuer of Visa (“Visa”) and MasterCard (“MasterCard”) credit cards in the U.S. based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2017. 

Both COEP and our branch of COBNA in Canada have the authority to provide credit card loans. 

We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services and financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We may issue equity or debt, including public offerings, to fund our acquisitions. 

We continue to service our existing home loan portfolio. 

The Cabela’s acquisition added approximately $5.7 billion to our domestic credit card loans held for investment portfolio as of the acquisition date. 

 4Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Including post-closing purchase price adjustments, we recorded approximately $9.2 billion in assets, including $8.2 billion of loans. 

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 100 Index. 

•our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; 

•charters for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors. 

These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. 

In addition, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 

We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income net of reward expenses, and service charges and other customer-related fees. 

Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments, are included in the Other category. 

•Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and international card businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom. 

•Consumer Banking: Consists of our branch-based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumers and small businesses, national deposit gathering, national auto lending and our consumer home loan portfolio and associated servicing activities. 

•Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering, capital markets and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. 

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. Net charge-off rates in our Credit Card and Consumer Banking businesses also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns and generally tend to be the highest in the first and fourth quarters of the year. 

 5Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see “Part II—Item 7. 

Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services. 

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express, Discover Card, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. 

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national, state and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, as well as with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. In addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. 

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Our decision to cease new originations of residential mortgage and home equity loan products within our Consumer Banking business was informed, in part, by the competitive landscape for those products. That decision notwithstanding, we believe that we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. 

In addition, an FHC is permitted to engage in activities considered to be financial in nature (including, for example, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities. Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. 

To become and remain eligible for financial holding company status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. 

 6Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. 

We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under the law of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions. 

The business activities of the Company and Banks are also subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations. 

We are also subject to the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act, which amended the TILA, and which imposes a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer’s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes revised disclosures required for open-end credit. 

Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws may also affect the ability of a bank, including the Banks, to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. 

The CFPB has issued several rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) that provide additional disclosure requirements and substantive limitations on our mortgage lending activities. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. 

Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 

The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (“Patriot Act”) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and customer due diligence. 

In May 2016, the United States Department of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued a final rule making customer due diligence a required, stand-alone part of the anti-money laundering programs financial institutions must maintain under the Bank Secrecy Act. 

The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and provides enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms to the United States government, including due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to produce certain records upon 

 7Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

request of a regulator or law enforcement agency; and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile,” only well-capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. The termination of deposit insurance would likely have a material adverse effect on a bank’s liquidity and earnings. 

These rules also limit the ability of a broker-dealer to transfer capital to its parent companies and other affiliates. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, among other things, to net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. 

Capital One Asset Management, LLC and Capital One Advisors, LLC are SEC-registered investment advisers regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 

Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all swap market participants to keep certain swap transaction records and report pertinent information to swap data repositories on a real-time and on-going basis. Further, each swap, group, category, type or class of swap that the CFTC or SEC determines must be cleared through a derivatives clearinghouse (unless the swap is eligible for a clearing exemption) must also be executed on a designated contract market (“DCM”), exchange or swap execution facility (“SEF”), unless no DCM, exchange or SEF has made the swap available for trading. 

The implementing regulations also require that we, as a banking entity with $50 billion or more in total assets, establish and maintain an enhanced compliance program designed to ensure that we comply with the requirements of the regulations. 

 8Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management,” “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” and “Note 12—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.” 

Basel III and United States Capital Rules 

The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC (collectively, the “Federal Banking Agencies”) issued a final rule that implemented Basel III and certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions and updated the prompt corrective action (“PCA”) framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums (“Basel III Capital Rule”). The Basel III Capital Rule includes the “Basel III Standardized Approach” and the “Basel III Advanced Approaches.” 

Prior to full implementation of the Basel III Advanced Approaches, however, a covered organization must complete a qualification period, known as the parallel run, during which it must demonstrate that it meets the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of its primary United States banking regulator. We became subject to the predecessor of these rules at the end of 2012. 

Notwithstanding the Basel III Advanced Approaches, the Basel III Capital Rule also established a capital floor so that organizations subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches may not hold less capital than would be required using the Basel III Standardized Approach capital calculations. 

On January 1, 2015, the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements increased to 4.5% for the common equity Tier 1 capital ratio and to 6.0% for the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, and the minimum requirements for the total risk-based capital ratio and Tier 1 leverage capital ratio remained the same. Compliance with certain aspects of the Basel III Capital Rule went into effect for Capital One as of January 1, 2014, and other provisions have gone or will go into effect according to various start dates and phase-in periods. On January 1, 2014, we began to use the Basel III Capital Rule, with transition provisions, to calculate our regulatory capital, including for purposes of calculating our regulatory capital ratios. 

The Basel III Capital Rule also introduced a new supplementary leverage ratio for all Advanced Approaches banking organizations with a minimum requirement of 3.0%. As an Advanced Approaches banking organization, however, we were required to calculate and publicly disclose our supplementary leverage ratio beginning in the first quarter of 2015. For further information, see “MD&A—Capital Management.” 

United States BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or total consolidated on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more are required to determine annually whether they are considered to be a G-SIB for purposes of the G-SIB Surcharge. 

There is uncertainty regarding how any of the proposed changes may impact the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches. 

 9Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Additionally, in December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized certain modifications to the international Basel III capital standards, which would require rulemaking in the United States prior to becoming effective for United States banking organizations. 

The “Market Risk Rule” supplements both the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches by requiring institutions subject to the Market Risk Rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading portfolios. 

•10% or more of total assets; or 

As of December 31, 2017, the Company and CONA are subject to the Market Risk Rule. 

Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules 

The other standard, the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), seeks to promote longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period based on the liquidity characteristics of its assets and activities. 

As implemented in the United States, the LCR Rule applies to institutions with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or total consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more, and their respective consolidated subsidiary depository institutions with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets. As a result, the Company and the Banks are subject to the LCR Rule. The Company is required to comply with these disclosure requirements beginning April 1, 2018. 

The Proposed NSFR would require us to maintain a sufficient amount of stable funding in relation to our assets, derivatives exposures and commitments over a one-year horizon period. There is uncertainty regarding the timing and form of any final rule implementing the NSFR in the United States. 

In general, U.S. implementation of the above capital and liquidity rules has increased capital and liquidity requirements for us. 

The FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to an adequately capitalized institution. 

 10Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The revised PCA requirements became effective on January 1, 2015, other than the supplementary leverage ratio, which became effective on January 1, 2018. For an insured depository institution to be well capitalized, it must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. 

The PCA provisions also authorize the Federal Banking Agencies to reclassify a bank’s capital category or take other action against banks that are determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or to have engaged in unsafe or unsound banking practices. 

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDICIA required the Federal Banking Agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements Under the Dodd-Frank Act 

As a result, we are subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable to smaller institutions. 

The Federal Reserve and FDIC have issued rules requiring covered companies to implement resolution planning for orderly resolution in the event the Company faces material financial distress or failure. 

The Federal Reserve established a rule that implements the requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act that the Federal Reserve conduct annual stress tests on the capacity of our capital to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. 

The Federal Reserve has finalized other rules implementing certain other aspects of the enhanced prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, which were applicable to us beginning on January 1, 2015 (“Enhanced Standards Rule”). These requirements are in addition to the LCR, discussed above in “Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules.” The Enhanced Standards Rule also requires that we comply with, and hold capital commensurate with, the requirements of, any regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve relating to capital planning and stress tests. 

The Heightened Standards Guidelines establish standards for the development and implementation by the Banks of a risk governance framework. 

 11Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Investment in the Company and the Banks 

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. 

Control exists if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock or otherwise has a controlling influence over us. 

Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (“Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). 

Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds 

Under the Federal Reserve’s capital planning rules applicable to large BHCs including us (commonly referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or “CCAR”), a BHC with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis that contains a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning horizon beginning with the fourth quarter of the calendar year prior to the submission of the capital plan (“CCAR cycle”). 

Dodd-Frank Act stress testing, described above in “Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act,” is a complementary exercise to CCAR. 

As part of its evaluation of a large BHC’s capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider how comprehensive the plan is, the reasonableness of the assumptions, analysis and methodologies used therein to assess capital adequacy and the ability of the BHC to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a planning horizon of at least nine quarters. The Company, along with other BHCs subject to the supplementary leverage ratio, must incorporate an estimate of its supplementary leverage ratio into its capital plan and stress tests. The Federal Reserve is expected to provide its objection or non-objection to that capital plan the following June. 

For annual company-run stress tests, a covered BHC is required to disclose the results within 15 calendar days after the Federal Reserve discloses the results of the BHC’s supervisory stress test, unless that time period is extended by the Federal Reserve. 

With certain limited exceptions, to the extent a BHC does not issue the amount of a given class of regulatory capital instrument that it projected in its capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the planning horizon, the BHC must reduce its capital distributions. 

 12Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

Among the provisions applicable to the Company, the revisions decrease the amount of capital a company subject to the quantitative requirements of CCAR can distribute to shareholders outside of an approved capital plan without seeking prior approval from the Federal Reserve (known as the “de minimis exception”). The revisions also impose a “blackout period,” starting with the 2017 CCAR exercise, during the second calendar quarter on the ability of a firm subject to CCAR to submit prior notice of its intention to rely on the aforementioned de minimis exception or to submit a request for prior approval for a capital distribution that is not reflected in the firm’s capital plan for which it has received a non-objection from the Federal Reserve. 

There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions without first obtaining regulatory approval if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards. 

Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The FDIC sets a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. 

The Dodd-Frank Act reformed the management of the DIF in several ways. The FDIC has set the DRR at 2% and, in lieu of dividends, has established progressively lower assessment rate schedules as the reserve ratio meets certain trigger levels. 

On August 30, 2016, the FDIC provided notice that the DIF Reserve Ratio exceeded the 1.15% threshold level, which triggered two changes in the deposit insurance assessments of the Banks. The FDIC has estimated that the reserve ratio will reach 1.35% in 2018; however, under the final rule, if the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC will impose a one-time shortfall assessment on March 31, 2019 on depository institutions subject to the surcharge, including the Banks. Second, the surcharge assessment was applied. 

Source of Strength and Liability for Commonly Controlled Institutions 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified this doctrine. 

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. 

 13Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

The costs of a liquidation of a financial company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future. 

Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States 

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom and Canada. 

COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K. 

Regulatory focus on Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) complaint handling has continued and PPI continues to be a key driver of consumer complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service (“FOS”). A number of claims management firms and law firms are threatening to pursue Plevin Complaints via the courts, rather than as complaints, to try and secure a higher level of redress. 

The FCA’s Credit Card Market Study continued throughout 2017 and will run into early 2018 before the FCA publishes final remedies and rules, with implementation expected to begin by the end of the second quarter of 2018 and through the course of the year. 

In particular, PSD2 requires banks and financial service providers to open up their systems to Payment Initiation Services (“PISPs”) (software bridges between a merchant website and online banking platform or payer’s bank) and Account Information Services (“AISPs”) (online services to provide consolidated information on one or more payment account, or account aggregation services). 

GDPR brings heightened scrutiny of data processing activities and higher fines and sanctions for non-compliance with data protection legislation. The U.K. and the organizations in the U.K. are working to implement GDPR’s requirements with a view for the country to obtain “Adequacy” status from the EU, reflecting a view that the U.K. protects personal data at a substantially equivalent level to the EU. 

 14Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

It is widely expected that the U.K. will enter into a transitional relationship with the EU after leaving the EU (scheduled currently for March 2019) during which time all current regulations and laws would remain applicable. 

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (“Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. 

Although the Canadian federal government acknowledges independent audit findings that Visa and MasterCard have met their commitments to reduce interchange fees pursuant to the 5-year agreement terminating in 2020, the government is currently conducting a further assessment of interchange fees. 

None of our associates are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our associate relations to be satisfactory. 

We leverage information and technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. 

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third-party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. 

We take measures that mitigate against known attacks and use internal and external resources to scan for vulnerabilities in platforms, systems, and applications necessary for delivering Capital One products and services. 

We also undertake other measures to control access to, or distribution of, our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results. 

 15Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

From time to time, we have made and will make forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, returns, expenses, capital measures, accruals for claims in litigation and for other claims against us; earnings per share or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; and the assumptions that underlie these matters. 

To the extent that any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things: 

•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada or our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, collateral values, consumer income, credit worthiness and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity; 

•an increase or decrease in credit losses, including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment, and the impact of inaccurate estimates or inadequate reserves; 

•compliance with financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impacts of the Tax Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, and other regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards; 

•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation, governmental investigation or regulatory enforcement action or matter involving us; 

•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; 

•increases or decreases in interest rates; 

•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth; 

•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances; 

•the amount and rate of deposit growth; 

•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans; 

•changes in retail distribution strategies and channels, including the emergence of new technologies and product delivery systems; 

•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers; 

•changes in the reputation of, or expectations regarding, the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial condition; 

•any significant disruption in our operations or in the technology platforms on which we rely, including cybersecurity, business continuity and related operational risks, as well as other security failures or breaches of our systems or those of our customers, partners, service providers or other third parties; 

•our ability to maintain a compliance and technology infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business; 

•our ability to develop and adapt to rapid changes in digital technology to address the needs of our customers and comply with applicable regulatory standards, including our increasing reliance on third party infrastructure and compliance with data protection and privacy standards; 

 16Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

•the effectiveness of our risk management strategies; 

•our ability to control costs, including the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas; 

•the extensive use, reliability and accuracy of the models and data we rely on in our business; 

•our ability to recruit and retain talented and experienced personnel; 

•the impact from, and our ability to respond to, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including hurricanes Harvey and Irma; 

•changes in the labor and employment markets; 

•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees, business partners or third parties; 

•merchants’ increasing focus on the fees charged by credit card networks; and 

•other risk factors identified from time to time in our public disclosures, including in the reports that we file with the SEC. 

Forward-looking statements often use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “target,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe” or other words of similar meaning. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above, and in our Risk Factors or other disclosure, in evaluating these forward-looking statements. 

 17Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 