For convenience, the terms “Company” and “we” are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted. 

The Company employed approximately 199,000 people as of September 30, 2017. 

The Company is preparing to launch two direct-to-consumer (DTC) streaming services, one in 2018 and one in late 2019. 

The Media Networks segment includes cable and broadcast television networks, television production and distribution operations, domestic television stations and radio networks and stations. 

The businesses in the Media Networks segment principally generate revenue from the following: 

•fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (traditional Multi-channel Video Programming Distributors “MVPD”), over-the-top (OTT) digital MVPDs (“DMVPD”) collectively referred to as MVPDs and television stations affiliated with our domestic broadcast television network for the right to deliver our programs to their customers/subscribers (“affiliate fees”); 

•the sale to advertisers of time in programs for commercial announcements (“ad sales”); and 

•the sale to television networks and distributors for the right to use our television programming (“program sales”). 

Operating expenses primarily consist of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. 

These networks produce their own programs or acquire rights from third parties to air their programs on our networks. 

Cable networks derive the majority of their revenues from affiliate fees and, for certain networks (primarily ESPN and Freeform), ad sales. The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our cable network services are largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market. 

The Company’s significant cable channels and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) (except where noted) are as follows: 

(1) Nielsen Media Research estimates are as of September 2017 and capture traditional MVPD and certain DMVPD subscriber counts. 

(2) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure these channels, estimated subscriber counts are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2016. 

(3) Because Nielsen Media Research and SNL Kagan do not measure these channels, estimated subscriber counts are based on internal management reports as of September 2017. 

ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN operates eight 24-hour domestic television sports channels: ESPN and ESPN2 (sports channel dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming), ESPNU (a channel devoted to college sports), ESPNEWS, SEC Network (a sports programming channel dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics), ESPN Classic, Longhorn Network (a channel dedicated to The University of Texas athletics) and ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language channel), which are all simulcast in high definition except ESPN Classic. 

ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including college football (including bowl games and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), US Open Tennis, various soccer rights, the Wimbledon Championships and the Masters golf tournament. 

In the U.S., ESPN.com also features live video streams of ESPN channels to authenticated MVPD subscribers. 

In the U.S., the ESPN app also features live video streams of ESPN’s linear channels and exclusive events on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. 

•ESPN Events Management – which owns and operates the ESPYs (annual awards show), X Games (winter and summer action sports competitions) and a portfolio of collegiate sporting events including bowl games, basketball games and post-season award shows 

•ESPN Radio – which distributes talk and play by play programming and is one of the largest sports radio networks in the U.S. ESPN Radio network programming is carried on approximately 400 terrestrial stations including four ESPN owned stations in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas and on satellite and internet radio 

•ESPN The Magazine – which is a bi-weekly sports magazine 

The Company operates over 100 Disney branded television channels, which are broadcast in 34 languages and 162 countries/territories, and Radio Disney. Programming for these channels includes internally developed and acquired programming. 

Non-subscribers have limited access to select content on these platforms. 

In the U.S., Disney Channel airs 24 hours a day. Disney Channel also airs programming and content from Disney’s theatrical film and television programming library. 

Disney Junior also airs as a programming block on the Disney Channel. 

In the U.S., Disney XD airs 24 hours a day. 

Disney Cinemagic and Disney Cinema - Disney Cinemagic and Disney Cinema are premium subscription services, which are available in a limited number of countries in Europe, that air a selection of Disney movies, cartoons and shorts as well as animated television series. 

Radio Disney is also available in Latin America on two owned terrestrial stations and through agreements with third-party radio stations. 

Freeform is a domestic cable channel targeted to viewers ages 14 to 34. 

Freeform is available digitally through platforms that deliver either live or on-demand channel programing on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. 

Hungama is a cable channel in India, which features a mix of animated series, movies and game shows, targeted at kids. 

UTV Action and UTV Movies offer Bollywood movies as well as Hindi dubbed Hollywood movies. 

BAMTech LLC (BAMTech) is a streaming technology and content delivery business. On September 25, 2017, the Company acquired an incremental 42% interest, bringing the Company’s aggregate ownership interest to 75%, and the Company now consolidates BAMTech. 

BAMTech generates revenue from providing technology services to video streaming services and from subscription and advertising revenue from direct-to-consumer streaming services it offers to consumers. 

Our broadcasting business includes a domestic broadcast network, television production and distribution operations, and eight owned domestic television stations. 

The Company operates the ABC Television Network (ABC), which as of September 30, 2017, had affiliation agreements with 244 local television stations reaching almost 100% of U.S. television households. 

ABC also receives fees from affiliated television stations for the right to broadcast ABC programming. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts. 

ABC network programming is available digitally on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. 

ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online and video-on-demand news reports from ABC News broadcasts. 

The Company produces the majority of its scripted television programs under the ABC Studios banner. The Company also produces Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials, as well as syndicated, news and daytime programming. 

We distribute the Company’s productions worldwide to television broadcasters, to SVOD services, and in home entertainment formats. 

The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top ten television household markets in the U.S. The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from ad sales. 

The stations we own are as follows: 

(1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2017 

The Company’s significant media equity investments are as follows: 

A+E Television Networks (A+E) is a joint venture owned 50% by the Company and 50% by the Hearst Corporation. 

•A&E – which offers entertainment programming including original reality and scripted series 

•HISTORY – which offers original series and event-driven specials 

•Lifetime – which is devoted to female-focused programming 

•Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) – which is a 24-hour movie channel 

•FYI – which offers contemporary lifestyle programming 

•Lifetime Real Women – which is a 24-hour cable channel with programming focusing on women 

A+E programming is available in over 200 countries and territories. 

In addition, the Company has a 10% direct ownership interest in Vice. 

A+E and Vice’s significant cable channels and the number of domestic subscribers by channel as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) are as follows: 

(1) Nielsen Media Research estimates are as of September 2017 and capture traditional MVPD and certain DMVPD subscriber counts. 

ESPN holds a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns television channels in Canada, including The Sports Networks (TSN) 1-5, Le Réseau des Sports (RDS), RDS2, RDS Info, ESPN Classic Canada, Discovery Canada and Animal Planet Canada. 

Hulu LLC (Hulu) aggregates acquired television and film entertainment content and original content produced by Hulu and distributes it digitally to internet-connected devices. 

The Company defers a portion of its profits from these transactions until Hulu recognizes third-party revenue from the exploitation of the rights. 

Time Warner, Inc. (TW) holds the remaining 10% interest in the venture, which was acquired from Hulu for $583 million in August 2016. 

The Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. have agreed to make a capital contribution for up to approximately $300 million each if required to fund the repurchase of shares from TW. 

Seven TV operates an advertising-supported, free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia. 

The Company’s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as online video services and video games. 

The Company’s Media Networks businesses face competition from other networks for advertising revenue and carriage by MVPDs and face competition from online services. 

The Company’s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports, talent, show concepts and other programming. 

The Company’s internet websites and digital products compete with other websites and entertainment products. 

Affiliate fees are generally collected ratably throughout the year. 

Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. 

•Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. 

•Television and radio station ownership limits. 

We do not own more than one television station in any market. 

▪Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience. 

▪FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans. 

FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major broadcast television networks — ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC — from being under common ownership or control. 

The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming. 

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. 

Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act and its successors, including most recently the STELA Reauthorization Act (STELAR), which also requires the “must carry” or “retransmission consent” election, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station’s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. The ABC owned television stations have historically elected retransmission consent. 

New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could have an impact on the Company’s operations. 

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies. 

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations. 

The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida; the Disneyland Resort in California; Disneyland Paris; Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii; the Disney Vacation Club; the Disney Cruise Line; and Adventures by Disney. The Company also licenses our intellectual property to a third party to operate the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. 

The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues from the sale of admissions to theme parks, sales of food, beverage and merchandise, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise and other vacation packages and sales, as well as rentals of vacation club properties. Significant costs include labor, infrastructure costs, depreciation, costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold, marketing and sales expense and cost of vacation club units. 

The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of land. 

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. 

Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed attractions, live Disney character interactions, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. 

Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology innovations, communication, transportation, use of imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Epcot — Epcot consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. 

Disney’s Hollywood Studios — Disney’s Hollywood Studios consists of seven themed areas: Animation Courtyard, Commissary Lane, Echo Lake, Hollywood Boulevard, Muppets Courtyard, Pixar Place and Sunset Boulevard. The areas provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action through various shows and attractions and offer themed food service and merchandise facilities. 

The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of vegetation. Disney’s Animal Kingdom — Disney’s Animal Kingdom consists of a 145-foot tall Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by seven themed areas: Africa, Asia, DinoLand USA, Discovery Island, Oasis, Pandora - The World of Avatar and Rafiki’s Planet Watch. 

Hotels, Vacation Club Properties and Other Resort Facilities — As of September 30, 2017, the Company owned and operated 18 resort hotels and vacation club facilities at the Walt Disney World Resort, with approximately 22,000 rooms and 3,200 vacation club units. 

The areas are home to more than 150 venues including the 51,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store. 

Nine independently-operated hotels with approximately 6,000 rooms are situated on property leased from the Company. 

In 2016, the Company began construction on an additional indoor sports venue that will have 8,000 seats and host cheer, dance, basketball and volleyball competitions. It also includes a 9,500-seat stadium. 

The resort also includes two water parks: Disney’s Blizzard Beach and Disney’s Typhoon Lagoon. 

The Company owns 486 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 55 acres of land in Anaheim, California. 

The Disneyland Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. 

These areas feature themed attractions, shows, 

Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades and nighttime fireworks and entertainment events. 

These areas include attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. 

Hotels, Vacation Club Units and Other Resort Facilities — Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels and vacation club facilities with approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space. 

Most of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. 

Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa 

Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa, is a Company operated family resort on a 21-acre oceanfront property on Oahu, Hawaii featuring 351 hotel rooms, an 18,000-square-foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. 

The land is being developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including a planned community development (Val d’Europe) and an eco-tourism destination (Villages Nature). 

During fiscal 2017, the Company increased its effective ownership interest from 81% to 100% of Disneyland Paris (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Disneyland Park — Disneyland Park consists of five themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland and Main Street USA. 

These areas each include themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. 

In addition, nine on-site hotels that are owned and operated by third parties provide approximately 2,700 rooms. 

Disney Village is a 500,000-square-foot retail, dining and entertainment complex located between the theme parks and the hotels. 

Val d’Europe is a planned community near Disneyland Paris that is being developed in phases. 

Disneyland Paris along with its 50% joint venture partner, Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs, is developing Villages Nature, a European eco-tourism destination adjacent to the resort. 

The resort is located on 310 acres on Lantau Island and is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. 

A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. 

Hong Kong Disneyland — Hong Kong Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Grizzly Gulch, Main Street USA, Mystic Point, Tomorrowland and Toy Story Land. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks event. 

Hotels — Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes three themed hotels with a total of 1,750 rooms. 

The Company owns a 43% interest in Shanghai Disney Resort, which opened in June 2016. The resort is located in the Pudong district of Shanghai on approximately 1,000 acres of land, which includes the Shanghai Disneyland theme park; two themed resort hotels; a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disneytown); and an outdoor recreation area. 

Shanghai Disneyland — Shanghai Disneyland consists of six themed areas: Adventure Isle, Fantasyland, Gardens of Imagination, Mickey Avenue, Tomorrowland and Treasure Cove. These areas feature themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. 

Hotels and Other Facilities - Shanghai Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,220 rooms. 

The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); four Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Ikspiari); and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location. 

The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a third-party Japanese corporation. 

Tokyo Disneyland — Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar. 

Tokyo DisneySea — Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, is divided into seven “ports of call,” including American Waterfront, Arabian Coast, Lost River Delta, Mediterranean Harbor, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Port Discovery. 

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — Tokyo Disney Resort includes four Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than 2,400 rooms and a monorail, which links the theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari. 

Available units are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two-bedroom equivalents. Disney Vacation Club (DVC) offers ownership interests in 14 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort; Aulani; Vero Beach, Florida; and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. 

The ships cater to families, children, teenagers and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. The Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder are approximately 85,000-ton 875-stateroom ships, and the Disney Dream and the Disney Fantasy are approximately 130,000-ton 1,250-stateroom ships. Many cruise vacations include a visit to Disney’s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island. 

Adventures by Disney offers all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. 

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and research and development for the Company’s Parks and Resorts operations. 

The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, the political environment, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, weather patterns and natural disasters. 

Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods. 

The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings and live stage plays. 

Significant operating expenses include amortization of production, participations and residuals costs, marketing and sales costs, distribution expenses and costs of sales. 

In addition, the Company distributes Dreamworks Studios (Dreamworks) produced live-action films that were released theatrically from 2010 through 2016. 

Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Marvel in fiscal year 2010, Marvel had licensed the rights to third-party studios to produce and distribute feature films based on certain Marvel properties including Spider-Man, The Fantastic Four and X-Men. Under the licensing arrangements for The Fantastic Four and X-Men, the third-party studio pays the Company a licensing fee and receives a share of the Company’s merchandise revenue on these properties. 

Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Lucasfilm in fiscal year 2013, Lucasfilm produced six Star Wars films (Episodes 1 through 6). The theatrical and home entertainment distribution rights for these films revert back to Lucasfilm in May 2020 with the exception of Episode 4, for which these distribution rights are retained in perpetuity by the third-party studio. 

Lucasfilm also includes Industrial Light & Magic and Skywalker Sound, which provide visual and audio effects and other post-production services to the Company and third-party producers. 

In the domestic theatrical market, we generally distribute and market our filmed products directly. Cumulatively through September 30, 2017 the Company has released domestically approximately 1,000 full-length live-action features and 100 full-length animated features. 

Therefore, we may incur a loss on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film. 

In international markets, we distribute home entertainment releases under our motion picture banners both directly and through independent distribution companies. 

Home entertainment releases are distributed in physical (DVD and Blu-ray) and electronic formats. However, distribution by physical rental services may be delayed up to 28 days after the start of home entertainment distribution. Titles are also sold to physical rental services, such as Netflix. 

As of September 30, 2017, we had approximately 1,400 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,000 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 1,900 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,300 live-action titles and 600 animated titles, in the international marketplace. 

In the television market, we license our films to cable and broadcast networks, television stations and other video service providers, which may provide the content to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices. 

Video-on-Demand (VOD) — Concurrently with physical home entertainment distribution, we license titles to VOD service providers for electronic delivery to consumers for a specified rental period. 

Pay Television (Pay 1) — In the U.S., there are two or three pay television windows. DreamWorks titles that are distributed by the Company are licensed to Showtime under a separate agreement. 

Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window to basic cable networks. 

The Pay 2 window is followed by a Free 2 window, whereby films are licensed to basic cable networks, SVOD services and to television station groups. 

In the Free 3 window, films are licensed to basic cable networks, SVOD services and to television station groups. 

The typical windowing sequence is consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles premiere on VOD services and then on pay TV or SVOD services before airing in free TV. 

DMG also licenses the songs and recording copyrights to third parties for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution and produces live musical concerts. 

Disney Theatrical Group develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world, including The Lion King, Aladdin, Newsies, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), Beauty and the Beast, Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida, TARZAN and The Little Mermaid. 

Disney Theatrical Group also licenses the Company’s intellectual property to Feld Entertainment, the producer of Disney On Ice and Marvel Universe Live!. 

We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses. 

In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. 

We also develop and publish games, primarily for mobile platforms, and books, magazines and comic books. The Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment licenses the Company’s trade names, characters and visual and literary properties to various manufacturers, game developers, publishers and retailers throughout the world. 

The Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment generates revenue primarily from: 

•licensing characters and content from our film, television and other properties to third parties for use on consumer merchandise, published materials and in multi-platform games; 

•selling merchandise through our retail stores, internet shopping sites and to wholesalers; 

•selling games through app distributors and online and through consumers’ in-game purchases; 

•selling self-published children’s books and magazines and comic books to wholesalers; 

•selling advertising in online video content; and 

•charging tuition at English language learning centers in China (Disney English). 

Significant costs include costs of goods sold and distribution expenses, operating labor and retail occupancy costs, product development and marketing. 

The Company’s merchandise licensing operations cover a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, home décor and furnishings, accessories, stationery, health and beauty, food, footwear and consumer 

The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties for use on third-party products in these categories and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. 

The Company markets Disney-, Marvel- and Lucasfilm-themed products through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name and through internet sites in North America (shopDisney.com and shop.Marvel.com), Western Europe, Japan and China. The Company also sells merchandise to retailers under wholesale arrangements. 

The Company licenses our properties to third-party game developers. 

The Company creates, distributes, licenses and publishes a variety of products in multiple countries and languages based on the Company’s branded franchises. 

Maker Studios is a network and developer of online video content distributed primarily on YouTube. Disney Digital Network (DDN), which includes Maker Studios, distributes online video content with advertisements and provides online marketing services. 

The Consumer Products & Interactive Media businesses compete with other licensors, retailers and publishers of character, brand and celebrity names, as well as other licensors, publishers and developers of game software, online video content, internet websites, other types of home entertainment and retailers of toys and kids merchandise. 

The Company’s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. 

We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. 