Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

(in millions, except per share data) 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company’s financial performance and condition that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. 

•Business Segment Results — 2017 vs. 2016 

•Business Segment Results — 2016 vs. 2015 

•Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Revenues for fiscal 2017 decreased 1%, or $0.5 billion, to $55.1 billion; net income attributable to Disney decreased 4%, or $0.4 billion, to $9.0 billion; and diluted earnings per share attributable to Disney (EPS) decreased 1%, or $0.04 to $5.69. The EPS decrease in fiscal 2017 was due to lower segment operating income at Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and Consumer Products & Interactive Media and higher net interest expense. 

These decreases were partially offset by the benefit from a full year of operations at Shanghai Disney Resort, which opened in June 2016, an increase in affiliate fees and higher average guest spending and attendance growth at our other parks and resorts. 

Product revenue reflected an approximate 1 percentage point decline due to an unfavorable FX Impact. 

Cost of services for fiscal 2017 increased 3%, or $0.7 billion, to $25.3 billion, due to higher sports programming costs, a full year of operations at Shanghai Disney Resort and new guest offerings and inflation at our other parks and resorts. 

Cost of products for fiscal 2017 decreased 7%, or $0.4 billion, to $5.0 billion, due to the discontinuation of Infinity, the absence of the Infinity Charge (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and lower retail and home entertainment volumes. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs reflected an approximate 1 percentage point benefit due to a favorable FX Impact. 

Depreciation and amortization costs increased 10%, or $0.3 billion, to $2.8 billion primarily due to a full year of operations at Shanghai Disney Resort and depreciation associated with new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. 

Charges in fiscal 2016 were due to asset impairments and severance and contract termination costs. 

Other income, net is as follows: 

In fiscal 2017, the Company recorded a non-cash net gain in connection with the acquisition of a controlling interest in BAMTech (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by a charge, net of committed insurance recoveries, in connection with the settlement of litigation. 

Interest expense, net is as follows: 

The increase in interest expense was due to higher average debt balances, lower capitalized interest and an increase in our effective interest rate. 

The increase in interest and investment income for the year was primarily due to an increase in interest income driven by an increase in average cash balances in interest bearing accounts and higher interest rates. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

The decrease at Hulu was due to higher programming, distribution, marketing and labor costs, partially offset by growth in advertising and subscription revenues. 

The lower tax on foreign earnings was driven by a decrease in foreign losses for which we are not recognizing a tax benefit. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year decreased $13 million to $386 million due to the impact of lower net income at ESPN, partially offset by the impact of improved results at Shanghai Disney Resort. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties and management fees, financing costs and income taxes. 

The EPS increase in fiscal 2016 was due to segment operating income growth at Studio Entertainment, Parks and Resorts and Consumer Products & Interactive Media, a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding as a result of our share repurchase program, a decrease in our effective income tax rate, which reflected a deferred tax asset write-off in fiscal 2015, and the benefit of the Vice Gain. These increases were partially offset by higher net interest expense, the Infinity Charge (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and higher restructuring and impairment charges in fiscal 2016. 

The estimated EPS impact of the additional week of operations in fiscal 2015 was approximately $0.13, and the majority of the impact was at our cable networks business, followed by our parks and resorts and, to a lesser extent, consumer products businesses. 

Additionally, growth in TV/SVOD, revenues from the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort, growth in digital distribution of film content and higher advertising revenue contributed to the increase in service revenue. These increases were partially offset by lower attendance at Disneyland Paris. 

Product revenues for fiscal 2016 decreased 1%, or $69 million, to $8.5 billion, due to the discontinuation of Infinity and lower retail store volumes, partially offset by higher average guest spending at our domestic parks and resorts, higher net effective pricing at home entertainment and revenues from the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort. 

Cost of services reflected an approximate 1 percentage point benefit due to a favorable FX Impact. 

Cost of products for fiscal 2016 increased 3%, or $167 million, to $5.3 billion, due to the Infinity Charge, higher guest spending and cost inflation at our domestic parks and resorts and higher film cost amortization due to home entertainment revenue growth, partially offset by lower costs from the discontinuation of Infinity. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs reflected an approximate 1 percentage point benefit due to a favorable FX Impact. 

 Depreciation and amortization costs increased 7%, or $173 million, to $2.5 billion due to the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort and depreciation of new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. 

Charges in fiscal 2016 were due to asset impairments and severance and contract termination costs. 

Interest expense, net is as follows: 

The increase in interest expense was due to higher average debt balances and an increase in our effective interest rate, partially offset by higher capitalized interest. 

The decrease in interest and investment income was due to lower gains on sales of investments. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

Equity in the income of investees increased 14% or $112 million, to $0.9 billion due to the $332 million Vice Gain. The benefit of the Vice Gain was partially offset by a higher loss at Hulu and lower operating results at A+E. 

The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to a write-off of a $399 million deferred income tax asset in fiscal 2015 as a result of the increase in the Company’s ownership of Euro Disney S.C.A. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2016 decreased $71 million to $399 million due to higher pre-opening expenses at Shanghai Disney Resort and a decrease related to Disneyland Paris, partially offset by higher results at ESPN. 

Results for fiscal 2017 were impacted by the following: 

•A $255 million non-cash net gain in connection with the acquisition of a controlling interest in BAMTech 

•A $177 million charge, net of committed insurance recoveries, in connection with the settlement of litigation 

•Restructuring and impairment charges totaling $98 million 

Results for fiscal 2016 were impacted by the following: 

•Restructuring and impairment charges totaling $156 million 

Results for fiscal 2015 were impacted by the following: 

•The $399 million Disneyland Paris Tax Asset Write-off 

•Restructuring and impairment charges totaling $53 million 

A summary of the impact of these items on EPS is as follows: 

(1) Tax benefit/expense adjustments are determined using the tax rate applicable to the individual item affecting comparability. 

(2) EPS is net of noncontrolling interest share, where applicable. 

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS — 2017 vs. 2016 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third-party and internal marketing expenses. 

Our Media Networks segment generates revenue from affiliate fees, ad sales and other revenues, which include the sale and distribution of television programming. 

Our Parks and Resorts segment generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the sale of food, beverage and merchandise, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacation packages and sales, as well as rentals of vacation club properties. Infrastructure costs include information systems expense, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, insurance and transportation and other operating expenses include costs for such items as supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. 

Our Studio Entertainment segment generates revenue from the distribution of films in the theatrical, home entertainment and television and SVOD markets (TV/SVOD), stage play ticket sales, music distribution and licensing of our intellectual 

property for use in live entertainment productions. 

Our Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment generates revenue from licensing characters and content from our film, television and other properties to third parties for use on consumer merchandise, published materials and in multi-platform games and from operating retail stores, internet shopping sites and a wholesale business. 

The following is a summary of segment revenue and operating income: 

The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the overall performance of the operating businesses. 

The following table reconciles segment operating income to income before income taxes. 

Operating results for the Media Networks segment are as follows: 

The increase in affiliate fees was due to an increase of 7% from higher contractual rates, partially offset by a decrease of 3% from subscribers. 

The decrease in advertising revenues was due to decreases of $192 million at Broadcasting, from $4,058 million to $3,866 million and $188 million at Cable Networks, from $4,451 million to $4,263 million. The decrease at Broadcasting was due to decreases of 8% from lower network impressions and 1% from the absence of the Emmy Awards show, partially offset by an increase of 6% from higher network rates. 

TV/SVOD distribution and other revenue decreased $199 million due to a decrease in program sales and an unfavorable FX Impact. 

At Broadcasting, programming and production costs decreased $77 million due to lower program sales. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $58 million from $2,705 million to $2,647 million due to lower marketing costs at Cable Networks and a favorable FX Impact. 

The decrease in depreciation and amortization was driven by lower depreciation for broadcasting equipment. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

BAMTech results reflected a valuation adjustment to sports programming rights that were prepaid prior to our acquisition of BAMTech and increased costs for technology platform investments. 

Segment operating income decreased 11%, or $853 million, to $6,902 million due to a decrease at ESPN and lower income from equity investees. 

The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Media Networks segment: 

The Company recorded charges of $74 million, $87 million and $62 million related to Media Networks for fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, that were reported in “Restructuring and impairment charges” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The charges in fiscal 2015 were due to a contract termination and severance costs. 

Operating results for the Parks and Resorts segment are as follows: 

Parks and Resorts revenues increased 8%, or $1,441 million, to $18.4 billion due to increases of $871 million at our international operations and $570 million at our domestic operations. 

Revenue growth of 32% at our international operations was due to increases of 27% from higher volumes and 4% from higher average guest spending, partially offset by a decrease of 1% from an unfavorable FX Impact. Higher average guest spending was driven by an increase at Disneyland Paris and higher average ticket prices at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by lower average ticket prices at Shanghai Disney Resort. 

Revenue growth of 4% at our domestic operations was primarily due to an increase of 3% from higher average guest spending due to an increase in average ticket prices for admissions to our theme parks and for sailings at our cruise line, as well as higher food and beverage spending and average hotel room rates. 

At Walt Disney World Resort, available hotel room nights decreased due to refurbishments and conversions to vacation club units. 

The following table presents supplemental park and hotel statistics: 

Hotel statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units. 

Per room guest spending is stated at the fiscal 2016 average foreign exchange rate. 

Operating expenses include operating labor, which increased $281 million from $4,709 million to $4,990 million, infrastructure costs, which increased $131 million from $1,934 million to $2,065 million and cost of sales, which increased $120 million from $1,536 million to $1,656 million. The increase in cost of sales was due to a full year of operations at Shanghai Disney Resort, inflation and higher volumes. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $37 million from $1,913 million to $1,950 million due to higher domestic marketing spend, partially offset by lower marketing spend for Shanghai Disney Resort. 

The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to a full year of operations at Shanghai Disney Resort and depreciation associated with new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. 

Equity in the Loss of Investees 

Loss from equity investees increased $22 million to $25 million due to a higher operating loss from Disneyland Paris’ 50% joint venture interest in Villages Nature. 

Segment operating income increased 14%, or $476 million, to $3.8 billion due to growth at our international and domestic operations. 

The Company recorded $9 million and $17 million of severance costs related to Parks and Resorts for fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively that were reported in “Restructuring and impairment charges” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Operating results for the Studio Entertainment segment are as follows: 

These decreases were partially offset by the performance of Beauty and the Beast and two Marvel titles in the current year compared to The Jungle Book and one Marvel title in the prior year. 

Lower home entertainment revenue was due to a decrease of 16% from a decline in unit sales driven by lower sales of Star Wars Classic titles and the performance of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story in the current year compared to the strong performance of Star Wars: The Force Awakens in the prior year. The current year also included the release of one Pixar title, compared to two Pixar titles in the prior year. 

TV/SVOD distribution and other revenue was flat as increases of 5% from TV/SVOD distribution, 1% from stage plays and 1% from Lucasfilm’s special effects business were offset by a decrease of 7% from lower revenue share with the Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment. Lower revenue share with the Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment was due to the stronger performance of merchandise based on Star Wars: The Force Awakens and Frozen in the prior year, partially offset by Cars merchandise in the current year. 

Lower film cost amortization was due to the impact of lower revenues, partially offset by a higher average amortization rate in the current year. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $380 million from $2,622 million to $2,242 million primarily due to lower theatrical marketing costs reflecting more titles released in the prior year, which also included the release of two DreamWorks titles, Pete’s Dragon and The Finest Hours. 

These decreases were partially offset by growth in TV/SVOD distribution. 

The Company recorded $7 million of severance costs related to Studio Entertainment for fiscal year 2017 that were reported in “Restructuring and impairment charges” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Operating results for the Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment are as follows: 

Lower games revenue was due to the discontinuation of Infinity in the prior year and decreased licensing revenue from Star Wars: Battlefront. The decrease at our merchandise licensing business was due to lower revenue in the current year from merchandise based on Star Wars and Frozen and an unfavorable FX Impact, partially offset by a benefit from licensee settlements and higher revenue from merchandise based on Cars. 

The decrease in retail and other revenue was due to a decrease of 9% from our retail business driven by lower comparable store and online sales in our key markets, reflecting higher sales of Frozen and Star Wars merchandise in the prior year, partially offset by sales of Moana merchandise in the current year. 

The decrease in cost of goods sold and distribution costs was due to the discontinuation of Infinity, lower retail sales and the decrease in sales of books and comics. 

The discontinuation of Infinity resulted in lower marketing costs. 

Segment operating income decreased 11%, or $221 million, to $1.7 billion due to lower results at our merchandise licensing, retail and publishing businesses, partially offset by an improvement at our games business. 

The Company recorded charges of $8 million and $143 million related to Consumer Products & Interactive Media for fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. The remaining charges of $14 million in fiscal year 2016 were primarily due to severance costs and were reported in “Restructuring and impairment charges” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS – 2016 vs. 2015 

Operating results for the Media Networks segment are as follows: 

The increase in affiliate fees reflected an increase of 7% from higher contractual rates, partially offset by decreases of 2% from subscribers, 2% from an unfavorable Fiscal Period Impact and 1% from an unfavorable FX Impact. 

The increase in advertising revenues was due to increases of $117 million at Cable Networks, from $4,334 million to $4,451 million and $31 million at Broadcasting, from $4,027 million to $4,058 million. The increase at Cable Networks was due to a 3% increase from higher rates and a 1% increase from higher impressions, partially offset by a decrease of 1% from an unfavorable Fiscal Period Impact. 

TV/SVOD distribution and other revenue increased $47 million from $2,874 million to $2,921 million due to an increase in program sales, partially offset by an unfavorable FX Impact. 

At Broadcasting, programming and production costs increased $306 million due to a higher average amortization rate, the impact of higher program sales, as well as an increase in cost write-downs for network programming. These increases were partially offset by a favorable Fiscal Period Impact. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $164 million from $2,869 million to $2,705 million due to a favorable FX Impact and lower marketing and labor costs. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

The decrease at A+E was due to lower advertising revenue and the impact of the conversion of the H2 channel to Viceland. 

In addition, the Fiscal Period Impact was unfavorable to segment operating income, primarily at our cable networks business. 

The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Media Networks segment: 

Operating results for the Parks and Resorts segment are as follows: 

Parks and Resorts revenues increased 5%, or $812 million, to $17.0 billion due to increases of $631 million at our domestic operations and $181 million at our international operations. 

Revenue growth of 5% at our domestic operations reflected an increase of 5% from higher average guest spending, partially offset by a decrease of 1% from lower volumes. The increase in average guest spending was due to higher average ticket prices for admissions to our theme parks and for sailings at our cruise line, increased food, beverage and merchandise spending and higher average hotel room rates. 

The increase from other revenue was driven by Shanghai Disney Resort, including revenues for periods prior to its grand opening. 

The following table presents supplemental park and hotel statistics: 

Hotel statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units. 

Per room guest spending is stated at the fiscal 2015 average foreign exchange rate. 

Operating expenses include operating labor, which increased $129 million from $4,580 million to $4,709 million, infrastructure costs, which increased $53 million from $1,881 million to $1,934 million and cost of sales, which increased $31 million from $1,505 million to $1,536 million. The increase in infrastructure costs was primarily due to the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort. The increase in operating labor was driven by the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort, inflation and higher operations support costs, partially offset by the benefit of efficiency initiatives and lower pension and postretirement medical costs. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $29 million from $1,884 million to $1,913 million due to higher marketing spend for Shanghai Disney Resort, partially offset by lower domestic marketing spending. 

The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to the impact of Shanghai Disney Resort and depreciation associated with new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. 

Segment operating income increased 9%, or $267 million, to $3.3 billion due to growth at our domestic operations, partially offset by a decrease at our international operations. 

Operating results for the Studio Entertainment segment are as follows: 

Other significant titles in fiscal 2016 included Captain America: Civil War, Finding Dory, Zootopia and The Jungle Book, whereas fiscal 2015 included Avengers: Age of Ultron, Inside Out, Big Hero 6 and Cinderella. 

Other significant titles included Inside Out, Zootopia, Captain America: Civil War, The Good Dinosaur and Ant-Man in fiscal 2016 compared to Guardians of the Galaxy, Big Hero 6, Frozen, Maleficent and Avengers: Age of Ultron in fiscal 2015. The higher unit sales and net effective pricing were due to the strong performance of Star Wars: The Force Awakens. 

The increase in TV/SVOD distribution revenue was due to international growth, a sale of Star Wars Classic titles in fiscal 2016 and two Pixar VOD availabilities in fiscal 2016 compared to none in fiscal 2015. 

Operating expenses include film cost amortization, which increased $833 million, from $1,790 million to $2,623 million and cost of goods sold and distribution costs, which increased $108 million, from $1,260 million to $1,368 million. The increase in cost of goods sold and distribution costs was due to higher theatrical distribution costs and an increase in home entertainment unit sales, partially offset by a favorable FX Impact. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $418 million from $2,204 million to $2,622 million driven by higher theatrical marketing costs reflecting more titles released in fiscal 2016, including the release of two DreamWorks titles. 

Segment operating income increased 37%, or $730 million to $2,703 million due to growth from theatrical and home entertainment results, an increase in TV/SVOD distribution and higher revenue share with the Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment. 

Operating results for the Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment are as follows: 

Lower games revenues were due to the discontinuation of the Infinity business, lower performance of our Frozen Free Fall mobile game and an unfavorable FX Impact, partially offset by revenues from Star Wars: Battlefront, which was released by a licensee in fiscal 2016. 

The decrease in retail and other revenue was primarily due to a decrease of 4% from our retail business due to lower comparable store sales in Europe and North America, an unfavorable Fiscal Period Impact and an unfavorable FX Impact, partially offset by the benefit of new stores in North America. 

The decrease in cost of goods sold and distribution costs was due to the discontinuation of Infinity, lower Frozen Free Fall co-developer fees and a favorable Fiscal Period Impact, partially offset by higher average per unit costs at our retail business in North America and Europe and higher game inventory reserves. 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $47 million from $1,172 million to $1,125 million due to the discontinuation of Infinity, partially offset by higher marketing costs at our merchandise licensing business. 

Segment operating income increased 4%, or $81 million, to $1,965 million due to higher results at our merchandise licensing and games businesses, partially offset by a decrease at our retail business. 

Corporate and unallocated shared expenses are as follows: 

Corporate and unallocated shared expenses in fiscal 2017 decreased $58 million to $582 million from $640 million in fiscal 2016 due to lower labor costs, partially offset by higher charitable contributions. 

The change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is as follows: 

Parks and Resorts cash flow reflected higher operating cash receipts due to increased revenues, partially offset by higher payments for labor and other costs. 

These increases were partially offset by higher operating cash disbursements at Studio Entertainment and an increase in pension plan contributions. 

Amortization of intangible assets is as follows: 

Programming costs include film or television product licensed for a specific period from third parties for airing on the Company’s broadcast, cable networks and television stations. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. 

The Company’s film and television production and programming activity for fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 

The Company’s investments in parks, resorts and other property for fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 

The decrease in capital expenditures at our international parks and resorts in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was due to lower spending at Shanghai Disney Resort and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, while the decrease in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was due to lower spending at Shanghai Disney Resort, partially offset by higher spending at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. 

Capital expenditures at Media Networks primarily reflect investments in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities and television station facilities. 

Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in corporate facilities, information technology infrastructure and equipment. 

The Company currently expects its fiscal 2018 capital expenditures will be approximately $1 billion higher than fiscal 2017 capital expenditures of $3.6 billion due to increased investments at our domestic parks and resorts. 

In addition, other investing activities reflected a $71 million use of cash reflecting $266 million of contributions to joint ventures and investment purchases, partially offset by $173 million of proceeds from investment dispositions. 

In addition, other investing activities reflected a $135 million use of cash reflecting $109 million of contributions to joint ventures and investment purchases and $74 million in premiums paid for foreign currency option contracts in connection with our commitment to acquire two new cruise ships. 

During fiscal 2015, other investing activities reflected $20 million of cash proceeds reflecting $166 million from the sale of investments and other assets, partially offset by contributions to joint ventures of $151 million. 

Cash used in financing activities was $9.0 billion in fiscal 2017 compared to $7.2 billion in fiscal 2016. 

The net use of cash in fiscal 2016 was due to $7.5 billion of common stock repurchases and $2.3 billion in dividends, partially offset by net 

The increase in cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was due to higher common stock repurchases ($7.5 billion in fiscal 2016 compared to $6.1 billion in fiscal 2015). 

During the year ended September 30, 2017, the Company’s borrowing activity was as follows: 

(1) Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. 

(2) See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of BAMTech. 

(3) The other activity is due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges. 

See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s bank facilities. 

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company’s dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

In addition to macroeconomic factors, the Company’s borrowing costs can be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company’s performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors”. The Company’s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage, which the Company met on September 30, 2017, by a significant margin. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

The Company has various contractual obligations, which are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. 

In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on outstanding borrowings based on their contractual maturities. 

Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as referenced in the table: 

(1)Excludes market value adjustments which reduce recorded borrowings by $73 million. 

Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports, television and radio personalities and executives. 

The Company also has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement medical benefit plans. 

See Notes 3, 6 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s contingent commitments and contractual guarantees. 

As disclosed in Notes 9 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain tax and legal matters. 

We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. 

Film and Television Revenues and Costs 

If our estimate of Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of film and television costs may be accelerated. For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial theatrical release. 

With respect to films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues (and therefore affecting future film cost amortization and/or impairment) is theatrical performance. 

other markets subsequent to the theatrical release (e.g., the home entertainment or television markets) have historically been highly correlated with the theatrical performance. Theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. 

In addition, television series with greater market acceptance are more likely to generate incremental revenues through the licensing of program rights worldwide to television distributors, SVOD services and in home entertainment formats. A significant decline in the advertising market would also negatively impact our estimates. 

Amortization of those television programming assets being amortized on a number of airings basis may be accelerated if we reduce the estimated future airings and slowed if we increase the estimated future airings. We expense the cost of television broadcast rights for acquired series, movies and other programs based on the number of times the program is expected to be aired or on a straight-line basis over the useful life, as appropriate. If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season’s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. If planned usage patterns or estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed. 

The net realizable values of television broadcast program licenses and rights are reviewed using a daypart methodology. The Company’s dayparts are: primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports (includes broadcast and cable networks). If actual demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, film, television and programming cost write-downs may be required. Estimated values are based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. 

The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of each business. 

We reduce home entertainment revenues for estimated future returns of merchandise and for customer programs and sales incentives. If we underestimate the level of returns or sales incentives in a particular period, we may record less revenue in later periods when returns or sales incentives exceed the estimated amount. 

We recognize revenues from advance theme park ticket sales when the tickets are used. 

Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions 

Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. 

A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by approximately $242 million and $2.3 billion, respectively. 

A lower expected rate of return on pension plan assets will increase pension expense, while a higher expected rate of return on pension plan assets will decrease pension expense. A one percentage point change in the long-term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2018 annual benefit expense by approximately $127 million. 

Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments 

The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. 

To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. We include in the projected cash flows an estimate of the revenue we believe the reporting unit would receive if the intellectual property developed by the reporting unit that is being used by other reporting units was licensed to an unrelated third party at its fair market value. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. 

In times of adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company’s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. 

The Company is required to compare the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying amounts. 

The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An asset group is established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses or segments. The impairment is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro rata basis using the relative carrying amounts, but only to the extent the carrying value of each asset is above its fair value. If we had established different asset groups or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges. 

The Company has cost and equity investments. In assessing the potential impairment of these investments, we consider these factors as well as the forecasted financial performance of the investees and market values, where available. 

These impairment charges were recorded in “Restructuring and impairment charges” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

In times of domestic or global economic turmoil, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. 

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these proceedings. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on litigation exposure. 

As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company’s decision to settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company’s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities. 

See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 

Such statements may, for example, express expectations or projections about future actions that we may take, including restructuring or strategic initiatives, or about developments beyond our control including changes in domestic or global economic conditions. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions as of the time the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update these statements. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations will necessarily come to pass. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 