In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with 

the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: 

Changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses. 

A decline in economic activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business can adversely affect demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. Recent instability in non-U.S. economies has had some of these and similar impacts on some of our domestic and overseas operations. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. Economic conditions can also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. 

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products could reduce demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. 

Our businesses create entertainment, travel and consumer products whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create and distribute filmed entertainment, broadcast and cable programming, online material, electronic games, theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products that meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content. 

Changes in technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products or the cost of producing or distributing products. 

This trend has impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels across the industry, including for a number of our networks. The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to shifting patterns of content consumption through the adoption and exploitation of new technologies. 

The success of our businesses is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create. 

If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. 

The unauthorized use of our intellectual property may increase the cost of protecting rights in our intellectual property or reduce our revenues. New technologies such as the convergence of computing, communication, and entertainment devices, the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging. 

Successful challenges to our rights in intellectual property may result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from the intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. 

Protection of electronically stored data is costly and if our data is compromised in spite of this protection, we may incur additional costs, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation. 

Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering and theft. We develop and maintain systems in an effort to prevent intrusion, tampering and theft, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where we believe appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. 

A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for our products and services, impair our ability to provide our products and services or increase the cost of providing our products and services. 

These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs and computer virus attacks, intrusions or other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our products and services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to these events. An incident that affected our property directly would have a direct impact on our ability to provide goods and services and could have an extended effect of discouraging consumers from attending our facilities. 

A wide variety of factors could influence the success of those third parties and if 

negative factors significantly impacted a sufficient number of our licensees, the profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely affected. 

We obtain insurance against the risk of losses relating to some of these events, generally including physical damage to our property and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and some liabilities for alleged breach of legal responsibilities. 

Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses. 

When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets. In recent years, such investments have included expansion and renovation of certain of our theme park attractions, investment in Shanghai Disney Resort and investments related to direct-to-consumer offerings of sports and other entertainment products. Some of these investments may have short-term returns that are negative or low and the ultimate business prospects of the businesses may be uncertain. 

Turmoil in the financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments. 

In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies that are based, in part, on the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. Past disruptions in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur, our cost of borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. 

Increased competitive pressures may reduce our revenues or increase our costs. 

We also must compete to obtain human resources, programming and other resources we require in operating our business. 

•Our broadcast and cable networks, stations and online offerings compete for viewers with other broadcast, cable and satellite services as well as with home entertainment products, new sources of broadband and mobile delivered content and internet usage. 

•Our broadcast and cable networks and stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other broadcast, cable and satellite services, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations. 

•Our cable networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. 

•Our studio operations, broadcast and cable networks compete to obtain creative and performing talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support and market share with other studio operations, broadcast and cable networks and new sources of broadband delivered content. 

•Our theme parks and resorts compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities. 

•Our studio operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment. 

•Our Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment competes with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. 

•Our interactive media operations compete with other licensors and publishers of console, online and mobile games and other types of home entertainment. 

Competition in each of these areas may increase as a result of technological developments and changes in market structure, including consolidation of suppliers of resources and distribution channels. Increased competition may divert consumers from our creative or other products, or to other products or other forms of entertainment, which could reduce our revenue or increase our marketing costs. 

Sustained increases in costs of pension and postretirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. 

With approximately 199,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of pension benefits and current and postretirement medical benefits. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors, which are beyond our control, including increases in the cost of health care. 

Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming or carriage contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms. 

As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights or distribution rights. With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and rates for programming, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms may be affected by recent consolidation in the market for program distribution and the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms. 

Changes in regulations applicable to our businesses may impair the profitability of our businesses. 

Our broadcast networks and television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of U.S. and overseas regulations. 

FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks, and our owned television stations. 

•Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations. 

•Regulation of the safety of consumer products and theme park operations. 

•Imposition by foreign countries of trade restrictions, restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions, currency exchange controls or motion picture or television content requirements or quotas. 

•Domestic and international wage laws, tax laws or currency controls. 

Changes in any of these regulations or regulatory activities in any of these areas may require us to spend additional amounts to comply with the regulations, or may restrict our ability to offer products and services in ways that are profitable. 

Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. 

Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or United States anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. 

Labor disputes may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. 

In addition, the employees of licensees who manufacture and retailers who sell our consumer products, and employees of providers of programming content (such as sports leagues) may be covered by labor agreements with their employers. 

The seasonality of certain of our businesses could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations. 

Each of our businesses is normally subject to seasonal variations, as follows: 

In general, advertising revenues are somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. 

Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods. 

•Revenues in our Studio Entertainment segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. 

•Revenues in our Consumer Products & Interactive Media segments are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in higher revenues during the Company’s first fiscal quarter, and by the timing and performance of theatrical and game releases and cable programming broadcasts. 

Accordingly, if a short-term negative impact on our business occurs during a time of high seasonal demand (such as hurricane damage to our parks during the summer travel season), the effect could have a disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year. 

The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2017 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 