There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or seek. 

Risk Factors Relating to Our Business 

Competitive pressures may adversely affect Dell Technologies' industry unit share position, revenue, and profitability. 

Further, efforts to balance the mix of products and services in order to optimize profitability, liquidity, and growth may put pressure on Dell Technologies' industry position. Dell Technologies competes based on its ability to offer to its customers competitive integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features. There is a risk that Dell Technologies' competitors may provide products that are less costly, perform better or include additional features that are not available with Dell Technologies' products. 

The generally low barriers to entry in the technology industry increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors. As the technology industry continues to expand globally, there may be new and increased competition in different geographic regions. 

Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm Dell Technologies' business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost. 

In addition, Dell Technologies may not be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software currently offered with its products if that software becomes obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future product versions or is not adequately maintained or updated. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm Dell Technologies' operating results. 

Dell Technologies sells components to these contract manufacturers and generates large non-trade accounts receivables, an arrangement that would present a risk of uncollectibility if the financial condition of a contract manufacturer should deteriorate. In addition, significant portions of Dell Technologies' products are assembled by contract manufacturers, primarily in various locations in Asia. 

Because Dell Technologies maintains minimal levels of component and product inventories, a disruption in component or product availability could harm Dell Technologies' ability to satisfy customer needs. In addition, defective parts and products from these vendors could reduce product reliability and harm Dell Technologies' reputation. 

If Dell Technologies fails to achieve favorable pricing from vendors, its profitability could be adversely affected. 

An inability to establish a cost and product advantage, or determine alternative means to deliver value to customers, may adversely affect Dell Technologies' revenue and profitability. Because these supplier negotiations are continuous and reflect the evolving competitive environment, the variability in timing and amount of incremental vendor discounts and rebates can affect Dell Technologies' profitability. 

Adverse global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may harm Dell Technologies' business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. 

Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect customer demand for Dell Technologies' products and services. Weak global economic conditions also could harm Dell Technologies' business by contributing to product shortages or delays, insolvency of key suppliers, customer and counterparty insolvencies, and increased challenges in managing Dell Technologies' treasury operations. 

Dell Technologies' results of operations may be adversely affected if it fails to successfully execute its growth strategy. 

The ability to implement this growth strategy depends on a successful transitioning of sales capabilities, the successful addition to the breadth of Dell Technologies' solutions capabilities through selective acquisitions of other businesses, and the effective management of the consequences of these strategic initiatives. As more customers are reached through new distribution channels and expanded reseller relationships, Dell Technologies may fail to manage effectively the increasingly difficult tasks of inventory management and demand forecasting. 

Dell Technologies faces risks and challenges in connection with its transformation to an essential infrastructure solutions provider and its business strategy. 

Dell Technologies expects its strategic transformation to an essential infrastructure solutions provider to take more time and investment, and the investments it must make are likely to result in lower gross margins and raise its operating expenses and capital expenditures. 

As a result, Client Solutions remains an important component in Dell Technologies' broad transformation strategy. For Fiscal 2018, Dell Technologies' Client Solutions business generated approximately 50% of Dell Technologies' net revenue, and largely relied on PC sales. Current challenges in Client Solutions stem from fundamental changes in the PC market, including a decline in worldwide revenues for desktop and laptop PCs, and lower shipment forecasts for PC products due to a general lengthening of the replacement cycle for PC products and increasing interest in alternative mobile solutions. 

The challenges Dell Technologies faces in its transformation include low operating margins for the Infrastructure Solutions Group, referred to as ISG, and, although Client Solutions drives pull-through revenue and cross-selling of ISG solutions, the potential for further margin erosion remains due to intense competition, including emerging competitive pressure from cloud services. 

In addition, returns from Dell Technologies' prior acquisitions have been mixed and will require additional investments to reposition the business for growth, while cross-selling synergies have not been achieved as anticipated. 

Dell Technologies may not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, which could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and increased costs. 

Further, future acquisitions may result in a delay or reduction of sales for both Dell Technologies and the acquired company because of customer uncertainty about the continuity and effectiveness of solutions offered by either company and may disrupt Dell Technologies' existing business by diverting resources and significant management attention that otherwise would be focused on development of the existing business. Dell Technologies makes strategic acquisitions of other companies as part of its growth strategy. 

To complete an acquisition, Dell Technologies may be required to use substantial amounts of cash, engage in equity or debt financings, or enter into credit agreements to secure additional funds. 

These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt Dell Technologies' business and distract management from other responsibilities, and may result in losses on disposition or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification or other financial arrangements, for a period following the transaction, which could adversely affect Dell Technologies' financial results. 

If its cost efficiency measures are not successful, Dell Technologies may become less competitive. 

For example, Dell Technologies may experience delays or unanticipated costs in implementing its cost efficiency plans, which could prevent the timely or full achievement of expected cost efficiencies. 

Dell Technologies' inability to manage solutions and product and services transitions in an effective manner could reduce the demand for Dell Technologies' solutions, products, and services, and the profitability of Dell Technologies' operations. 

If Dell Technologies fails to manage in an effective manner transitions to new solutions and offerings, the products and services associated with such offerings and customer demand for Dell Technologies' solutions, products, and services could diminish, and Dell Technologies' profitability could suffer. 

Product transitions also present execution challenges and risks, including the risk that new or upgraded products may have quality issues or other defects. 

Failure to deliver high-quality hardware, software, and services could lead to loss of customers and diminished profitability. 

Dell Technologies must identify and address quality issues associated with its hardware, software, and services, many of which include third-party components. 

Dell Technologies' ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue is subject to additional risks and uncertainties. 

Dell Technologies' future growth rates and success are substantially dependent on the continued growth of Dell Technologies' business outside of the United States. Dell Technologies' international operations face many risks and uncertainties, including varied local economic and labor conditions, political instability, changes in the U.S. and international regulatory environments, and the impacts of trade protection measures, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations), copyright levies, and foreign currency exchange rates. 

Dell Technologies' profitability may be adversely affected by product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends. 

Profit margins vary among products, services, customers, and geographic markets. Among the trends with the most significant impact on Dell Technologies' operating results, sales to government customers (particularly the U.S. federal government) are typically stronger in Dell Technologies' third fiscal quarter, sales in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa are often weaker in Dell Technologies' third fiscal quarter, and sales to consumers are typically strongest during Dell Technologies' fourth fiscal quarter. 

Dell Technologies may lose revenue opportunities and experience gross margin pressure if sales channel participants fail to perform as expected. 

Future operating results depend on the performance of sales channel participants and on Dell Technologies' success in maintaining and developing these relationships. Further, some channel participants may consider the expansion of Dell Technologies' direct sales initiatives to conflict with their business interests as distributors or resellers of Dell Technologies' products, which could lead them to reduce their investment in the distribution and sale of such products, or to cease all sales of Dell Technologies' products. 

Dell Technologies' financial performance could suffer from reduced access to the capital markets by Dell Technologies or some of its customers. 

Deterioration in Dell Technologies' business performance, a credit rating downgrade, volatility in the securitization markets, changes in financial services regulation, or adverse changes in the economy could lead to reductions in the availability of debt financing. The debt and capital markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption from time to time in the future, which could result in higher credit spreads in such markets and higher funding costs for Dell Technologies. In addition, these events could limit Dell Technologies' ability to continue asset securitizations or other forms of financing from debt or capital sources, reduce the amount of financing receivables that Dell 

Any of these developments could adversely affect Dell Technologies' net revenue, profitability, and cash flows. 

Weak economic conditions and additional regulation could harm Dell Technologies' financial services activities. 

An increase in loan delinquencies and defaults would result in greater net credit losses, which may require Dell Technologies to increase its reserves for customer receivables. 

Dell Technologies is subject to counterparty default risks. 

Dell Technologies has numerous arrangements with financial institutions that include cash and investment deposits, interest rate swap contracts, foreign currency option contracts, and forward contracts. In times of market distress, a counterparty may default rapidly and without notice, and Dell Technologies may be unable to take action to cover its exposure, either because of lack of contractual ability to do so or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. 

The exercise by customers of certain rights under their services contracts with Dell Technologies, or Dell Technologies' failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts, could adversely affect Dell Technologies' revenue and profitability. 

Many of Dell Technologies' services contracts allow customers to take actions that may adversely affect Dell Technologies' revenue and profitability. If Dell Technologies fails to estimate such costs accurately and actual costs significantly exceed estimates, Dell Technologies may incur losses on the services contracts. 

Loss of government contracts could harm Dell Technologies' business. 

In addition, if Dell Technologies violates legal or regulatory requirements, the applicable government could suspend or disbar Dell Technologies as a contractor, which would unfavorably affect Dell Technologies' net revenue and profitability. Funding reductions or delays could adversely affect public sector demand for Dell Technologies' products and services. 

Dell Technologies' business could suffer if Dell Technologies does not develop and protect its proprietary intellectual property or obtain or protect licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms. 

If Dell Technologies or its suppliers are unable to develop or protect desirable technology or technology licenses, Dell Technologies may be prevented from marketing products, may have to market products without desirable features, or may incur substantial costs to redesign products. Although Dell Technologies invests in research and development and obtains additional intellectual property through acquisitions, those activities do not guarantee that Dell Technologies will develop or obtain intellectual property necessary for profitable operations. 

costs could increase because of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders and collection agencies in European and other countries. 

Infrastructure disruptions could harm Dell Technologies' business. 

Portions of Dell Technologies' IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service, or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work. Dell Technologies depends on its information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to achieve its business objectives. Natural disasters, manufacturing failures, telecommunications system failures, or defective or improperly installed new or upgraded business management systems could lead to disruptions in this infrastructure. 

Cyber attacks or other data security incidents that disrupt Dell Technologies' operations or result in the breach or other compromise of proprietary or confidential information about Dell Technologies or Dell Technologies' workforce, customers, or other third parties could disrupt Dell Technologies' business, harm its reputation, cause Dell Technologies to lose clients, and expose Dell Technologies to costly regulatory enforcement and litigation. 

Dell Technologies manages, stores, and otherwise processes various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to its operations. Further, hardware and operating system software and applications that Dell Technologies produces or procures from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of such systems. 

Remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede Dell Technologies' sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. Further, Dell Technologies relies in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers and other vendors whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on Dell Technologies. 

Dell Technologies' ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting its business subjects it to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require Dell Technologies to notify regulators and customers, employees, or other individuals of a data security breach, including in the European Union when the EU General Data Protection Regulation takes effect in May 2018. 

Failure to hedge effectively Dell Technologies' exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could adversely affect Dell Technologies' financial condition and results of operations. 

If Dell Technologies is not successful in monitoring its foreign exchange exposures and conducting an effective hedging program, Dell Technologies' foreign currency hedging activities may not offset the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its future results of operations and financial position. 

The expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other tax compliance matters, or adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes could result in an increase in Dell Technologies' tax expense or Dell Technologies' effective income tax rate. 

Portions of Dell Technologies' operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time. If the tax holidays are not extended, or if Dell Technologies fails to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, its effective tax rate would be impacted. 

The application of tax laws to Dell Technologies' operations and past transactions involves some inherent uncertainty. Although Dell Technologies believes its tax positions are appropriate, Dell Technologies may not be successful in resolving potential tax claims that arise from these audits. 

In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial, and administrative changes have been made to tax laws applicable to Dell Technologies and companies similar to Dell Technologies. 

Dell Technologies' profitability could suffer from any impairment of its portfolio investments. 

Dell Technologies' portfolio securities generally are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded in Dell Technologies' financial statements at fair value. If any such investments experience declines in market price and it is determined that such declines are other than temporary, Dell Technologies may have to recognize in earnings the decline in the fair market value of such investments below their cost or carrying value. 

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could harm Dell Technologies' business and result in substantial costs. 

In addition, Dell Technologies' business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against it by any third party is successful, or if Dell Technologies fails to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. Dell Technologies could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect its operating results or cash flows in a particular period. 

Dell Technologies is incurring increased costs and is subject to additional regulations and requirements as a public company, and Dell Technologies' management is required to devote substantial time to compliance matters, which could lower Dell Technologies' profits or make it more difficult to run its business. 

Further, if Dell Technologies is unable to satisfy its obligations as a public company, the Class V Common Stock could be subject to delisting from the NYSE and Dell Technologies could be subject to fines, sanctions, and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. The increased Dell Technologies' legal and financial compliance costs have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. Laws and regulations affecting public company directors and executive officers could make it more difficult for Dell Technologies to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or its board committees or as its executive officers. 

Dell Technologies is obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and any failure to do so may adversely affect investor confidence in Dell Technologies and, as a result, the value of the Class V Common Stock. 

Dell Technologies also is required to disclose significant changes made in its internal control over financial reporting. The process of designing, implementing, and testing internal control over financial reporting is time-consuming, costly, and complicated. 

Dell Technologies may experience material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting in the future. If Dell Technologies is unable to conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if Dell Technologies' independent registered public accounting firm determines that Dell Technologies has a material weakness or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of Dell Technologies' financial reports, the market price of the Class V Common Stock could decline, and Dell Technologies could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 

Compliance requirements of current or future environmental and safety laws, or other laws, may increase costs, expose Dell Technologies to potential liability and otherwise harm Dell Technologies' business. 

Product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to climate change laws and regulations, materials composition, sourcing, energy efficiency and collection, recycling, treatment, transportation, and disposal of electronics products, including restrictions on mercury, lead, cadmium, lithium metal, lithium ion, and other substances. The costs and timing of costs under environmental and safety laws are difficult to predict, but could have an adverse impact on Dell Technologies' business. 

In addition, Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and are also subject to export controls, customs, and economic sanctions laws and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. 

result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on their business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

Dell Technologies also is subject to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. 

Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm Dell Technologies' business. 

Any such future events could cause a decrease in demand for Dell Technologies' products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products or for suppliers to deliver components, and create delays and inefficiencies in Dell Technologies' supply chain. 

Dell Technologies is highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, its Chief Executive Officer, and its success depends on the ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees. 

Dell Technologies is highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, its Chief Executive Officer and largest stockholder. Further, Dell Technologies relies on key personnel, including other members of its executive leadership team, to support its business and increasingly complex product and services offerings. 

Dell Technologies' substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. 

As of February 2, 2018, Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries had approximately $51.9 billion of short-term and long-term indebtedness. 

Dell Technologies' substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: 

•Dell Technologies must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its senior credit facilities, its senior secured and senior unsecured notes, and its other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to Dell Technologies for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions; 

•Dell Technologies' ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes may be impaired; 

•Dell Technologies is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because Dell Technologies' senior credit facilities have variable rates of interest; 

•Dell Technologies' leverage may be greater than that of some of its competitors, which may put Dell Technologies at a competitive disadvantage and reduce Dell Technologies' flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; and 

•Dell Technologies may be unable to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in its senior credit facilities, the notes, and other indebtedness that limit Dell Technologies' ability to incur additional debt, make investments, and sell assets, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would have an adverse effect on Dell Technologies' business and prospects and could force it into bankruptcy or liquidation. 

Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in Dell Technologies' and its subsidiaries' credit facilities and the indentures that govern the notes. If new indebtedness is added to the debt levels of Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries, the related risks that Dell Technologies now faces could intensify. 

Dell Technologies may be unable to generate operating cash flows and other cash necessary to achieve a level of debt reduction that will significantly enhance the company’s credit quality and reduce the risks associated with its substantial indebtedness. 

Given current industry and economic conditions, Dell Technologies' cash flow may not be sufficient to allow Dell Technologies to pay principal and interest on its debt and meet its other obligations. Dell Technologies is not able to control many of these factors. 

The financial performance of Dell Technologies is affected by the financial performance of VMware, Inc.. 

Because Dell Technologies consolidates the financial results of VMware, Inc. in its results of operations, its financial performance is affected by the financial performance of VMware, Inc. VMware, Inc.'s financial performance may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 

•fluctuations in demand, adoption rates, sales cycles (which have been increasing in length), and pricing levels for VMware, Inc.'s products and services; 

•changes in customers' budgets for information technology purchases and in the timing of its purchasing decisions; 

•the timing of recognizing revenues in any given quarter, which can be affected by a number of factors, including product announcements, beta programs, and product promotions that can cause revenue recognition of certain orders to be deferred until future products to which customers are entitled become available; 

•the timing of announcements or releases of new or upgraded products and services by VMware, Inc. or by its competitors; 

•the timing and size of business realignment plans and restructuring charges; 

•VMware, Inc.'s ability to maintain scalable internal systems for reporting, order processing, license fulfillment, product delivery, purchasing, billing, and general accounting, among other functions; 

•VMware, Inc.'s ability to control costs, including its operating expenses; 

•credit risks of VMware, Inc.'s distributors, who account for a significant portion of VMware, Inc.'s product revenues and accounts receivable; 

•VMware, Inc.'s ability to process sales at the end of the quarter; 

•seasonal factors, such as the end of fiscal period budget expenditures by VMware, Inc.'s customers and the timing of holiday and vacation periods; 

•renewal rates and the amounts of the renewals for enterprise agreements, as the original terms of such agreements expire; 

•the timing and amount of software development costs that may be capitalized; 

•unplanned events that could affect market perception of the quality or cost-effectiveness of VMware, Inc.'s products and solutions; and 

•VMware, Inc.'s ability to predict accurately the degree to which customers will elect to purchase its subscription-based offerings in place of licenses to its on-premises offerings. 

Dell Technologies' pension plan assets are subject to market volatility. 

As of February 2, 2018, the ten-year historical rate of return on plan assets was 7.38%, and the inception-to-date return on plan assets was 9.74%. Should Dell Technologies not achieve the expected rate of return on the plan's assets or if the plan experiences a decline in the fair value of its assets, Dell Technologies may be required to contribute assets to the plan, which could materially adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. The effect of such a change could result in a reduction in the long-term rate of return on plan assets and an increase in future pension expense. 

Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Dell Technologies 

The MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders have the ability to elect all of the directors of Dell Technologies, and such stockholders' interests may differ from the interests of the holders of Class V Common Stock. 

By reason of their ownership of substantially all of Dell Technologies' Class A Common Stock, Michael S. Dell and a separate property trust for the benefit of his wife (the "MD stockholders") have the ability to elect all of the Group I Directors, who have an aggregate of 3 of the 13 total votes on the Dell Technologies board of directors, and all of the Group II Directors, who have an aggregate of 7 of the 13 total votes on the Dell Technologies board of directors. Egon Durban and Simon Patterson are the sole Group III Directors. 

Dell Technologies is controlled by the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders, whose interests may differ from the interests of the holders of Class V Common Stock. 

By reason of their ownership of Class A Common Stock possessing a majority of the aggregate votes entitled to be cast by holders of Dell Technologies' Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class C Common Stock, and Class V Common Stock, voting together as a single class, the MD stockholders have the ability to approve any matter submitted to the vote of all of the outstanding shares of Dell Technologies common stock voting together as a single class. 

Through their control of Dell Technologies, subject to certain special voting rights of the Class V Common Stock related to actions that affect the Class V Common Stock and certain consent rights of the SLP stockholders, the MD stockholders and the MSD Partners stockholders are able to control actions to be taken by Dell Technologies, including the election of directors of Dell Technologies' subsidiaries (including VMware, Inc. and its subsidiaries), amendments to Dell Technologies' organizational documents and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers, sales of substantially all of Dell Technologies' assets, distributions of Dell Technologies' assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, and any incurrence of liens on Dell Technologies' assets. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors has formed an executive committee of the board consisting entirely of directors designated by the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders, and has delegated a substantial portion of the power and authority of the Dell Technologies board of directors to the executive committee. 

In addition, the executive committee acts as the compensation committee of Dell Technologies' board of directors. Among other matters, the executive committee has been delegated the board's power and authority, subject to specified limits, to review and approve, with respect to Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries, acquisitions and dispositions, the annual budget and business plan, the incurrence of indebtedness, entry into material commercial agreements, joint ventures and strategic alliances, and the commencement and settlement of material litigation. 

The MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders will be able to continue to strongly influence or effectively control decisions made by the Dell Technologies board of directors even if they own less than 50% of Dell Technologies' combined voting power. 

Following an initial public offering of DHI Group Common Stock, so long as each of the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders beneficially own at least 5% of all outstanding shares of Dell Technologies stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, each of the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders will be entitled to nominate at least one individual for election to the board, with each of the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders having the right to nominate a number of directors equal to the percentage of the total voting power for the regular election of directors of Dell Technologies beneficially owned by the MD stockholders or by the SLP stockholders, as the case may be, multiplied by the number of directors then on the Dell Technologies board. 

The MD Stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may have interests that conflict with the interests of other stockholders or those of Dell Technologies. 

In the ordinary course of their business activities, the MD stockholders, investment funds affiliated with MSD Partners, L.P. (the "MSD Partners stockholders"), and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with interests of other stockholders or those of the company. The MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to Dell Technologies' business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to Dell Technologies. 

Dell Technologies is a "controlled company" within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, qualifies for, and relies on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, as a result of which holders of Class V Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. 

As of February 2, 2018, for any matter submitted to a vote of the holders of Dell Technologies common stock voting together as a single class: 

•the number of votes to which holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 72% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled; 

•the number of votes to which holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 24% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled; 

•the number of votes to which holders of Class C Common Stock are entitled represent less than 1% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled; and 

•the number of votes to which holders of Class V Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 4% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled. 

Accordingly, the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of Dell Technologies stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. 

Dell Technologies is a "controlled company" within the meaning of NYSE rules. 

•Dell Technologies have a board that is composed of a majority of "independent directors," as defined under the rules of the NYSE; 

•Dell Technologies have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and 

•Dell Technologies have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. 

Accordingly, holders of Class V Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. 

The Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation designates a state court of the State of Delaware or the federal district court for the District of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by Dell Technologies' stockholders, which could limit the ability of the holders of Class V Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with Dell Technologies or with directors, officers, or the controlling stockholders of Dell Technologies. 

Under the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation, unless Dell Technologies consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum will be a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) for: 

•any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Dell Technologies; 

•any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies to Dell Technologies or Dell Technologies' stockholders; 

•any action asserting a claim against Dell Technologies or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or Dell Technologies' certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or 

•any action asserting a claim against Dell Technologies or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies governed by the internal affairs doctrine. 

These provisions of the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation could limit the ability of the holders of the Class V Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with Dell Technologies or with directors, officers, or the controlling stockholders of Dell Technologies, which may discourage such lawsuits against Dell Technologies and its directors, 

Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of its constituent documents inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, Dell Technologies may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Risk Factors Relating to the Class V Common Stock 

Holders of Class V Common Stock are common stockholders of Dell Technologies and, therefore, are subject to risks associated with an investment in Dell Technologies as a whole. 

The DHI Group generally refers to the direct and indirect interest of Dell Technologies in all of Dell Technologies' business, assets, properties, liabilities, and preferred stock other than those attributable to the Class V Group, as well as the DHI Group's retained interest in the Class V Group equal to approximately 39% of Dell Technologies' economic interest in the Class V Group as of February 2, 2018. As of February 2, 2018, the Class V Group consisted of approximately 331 million shares of VMware, Inc. common stock. 

 Although Dell Technologies' tracking stock policy provides that reallocations of assets between groups may result in the creation of inter-group debt or an increase or decrease of the DHI Group's inter-group interest in the Class V Group or in an offsetting reallocation of cash or other assets, Dell Technologies' creditors are not limited by Dell Technologies' tracking stock capitalization from proceeding against any assets against which they could have proceeded if Dell Technologies did not have a tracking stock capitalization. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors may not reallocate assets and liabilities between the DHI Group and the Class V Group without the approval of the Capital Stock Committee, which currently consists solely of independent directors, but any such reallocation of assets and liabilities may make it difficult to assess the future prospects of either group based on its past performance. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors may not allocate or reallocate assets and liabilities to one group or the other without the approval of the Capital Stock Committee, which must consist of a majority of independent directors and currently consists solely of independent directors. Any such reallocation made by the Dell Technologies board of directors, as well as the existence of the right in and of itself to effect a reallocation, may affect the ability of investors to assess the future prospects of either group, including its liquidity and capital resource needs, based on its past performance. 

Any allocation or reallocation of assets and liabilities to one group or the other that results in the Class V Common Stock ceasing to track the performance of the Class A common stock of VMware, Inc. could result in the delisting of the Class V Common Stock from the NYSE, as discussed below, which would materially adversely affect the liquidity and value of the Class V Common Stock. 

The listing standards of the NYSE include certain requirements to maintain the listing of an Equity Investment Tracking Stock, and if the Class V Common Stock were delisted because of the failure to meet any of such requirements, the liquidity and value of the Class V Common Stock would be materially adversely affected. 

The listing standards of the NYSE provide that the Class V Common Stock could be delisted from the NYSE if: 

•the Class A common stock of VMware, Inc. ceases to be listed on the NYSE; 

•Dell Technologies ceases to own, directly or indirectly, at least 50% of either the economic interest or the voting power of all of the outstanding classes of common equity of VMware, Inc.; or 

•the Class V Common Stock ceases to track the performance of the Class A common stock of VMware, Inc. 

If the Class V Common Stock did not qualify for initial listing at that time under another applicable listing standard, the NYSE would commence delisting proceedings. Any delisting of the Class V Common Stock would materially adversely affect the liquidity and value of the Class V Common Stock. 

The market price of Class V Common Stock may not reflect the performance of the Class V Group as Dell Technologies intends. 

Holders of Class V Common Stock are common stockholders of Dell Technologies as a whole and, as such, are subject to all risks associated with an investment in Dell Technologies and all of Dell Technologies' businesses, assets, and liabilities, including the approximately $51.9 billion of short-term and long-term indebtedness that Dell Technologies has outstanding as of February 2, 2018. In addition, investors may discount the value of the Class V Common Stock because it is part of a common enterprise rather than of a stand-alone entity. 

The market price of Class V Common Stock may be volatile, could fluctuate substantially, and could be affected by factors that do not affect traditional common stock. 

The market price of Class V Common Stock may be materially affected by, among other factors: 

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in VMware, Inc.'s operating results or in the operating results of any other businesses attributable to the Class V Group from time to time; 

•potential acquisition activity by Dell Technologies or the companies in which Dell Technologies invests; 

•adverse changes in the credit rating or credit quality of Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries; 

•issuances of additional debt or equity securities to raise capital by Dell Technologies or the companies in which Dell Technologies invests and the manner in which that debt or the proceeds of an equity issuance are attributed to each of the groups; 

•changes in financial estimates by securities analysts regarding Class V Common Stock or the companies attributable to either of Dell Technologies' groups; 

•changes in market valuations of other companies engaged in similar lines of business; 

•the complex nature and the potential difficulties investors may have in understanding the terms of the Class V Common Stock, as well as concerns regarding the possible effect of certain of those terms on an investment in Dell Technologies' stock; and 

The market price of the Class V Common Stock may decline from time to time and you may not be able to sell your shares of Class V Common Stock at an attractive price or at all. 

Dell Technologies may not pay dividends equally or at all on the Class V Common Stock. 

If VMware, Inc. were to pay a dividend on the VMware, Inc. common stock owned by Dell Technologies that is attributable to the Class V Group, Dell Technologies could, but would not be required to, distribute some or all of that amount to the holders of Class V Common Stock. Dell Technologies has the right to pay dividends on the shares of common stock of each group in equal or unequal amounts, and Dell Technologies may pay dividends on the shares of common stock of one group and not pay dividends on shares of common stock of the other group. 

To the extent that Dell Technologies determines in the future to pay dividends on the DHI Group Common Stock or the Class V Common Stock, the terms of certain agreements governing Dell Technologies' or its subsidiaries' indebtedness, including the revolving credit facilities of Dell Technologies and any credit facilities of VMware, Inc., may significantly restrict the ability of Dell Technologies' subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to Dell Technologies, as well as the ability of Dell Technologies to pay dividends to holders of its common stock. 

Dell Technologies' tracking stock capital structure could create conflicts of interest, and the Dell Technologies board of directors might make decisions that could adversely affect only some holders of Dell Technologies' common stock. 

As a result, Dell Technologies' officers and directors owe fiduciary duties to Dell Technologies as a whole and all of Dell Technologies' stockholders as opposed to only holders of a particular group. Decisions deemed to be in the best interest of Dell Technologies and all of Dell Technologies' stockholders may not be in the best interest of a particular group when considered independently, such as: 

•decisions as to the terms of any business relationships that may be created between the DHI Group and the Class V Group or the terms of any reallocations of assets between the groups; 

•decisions as to the allocation of corporate opportunities between the groups, especially where the opportunities might meet the strategic business objectives of both groups; 

•decisions as to operational and financial matters that could be considered detrimental to one group but beneficial to the other; 

•decisions as to the conversion of Class V Common Stock into Class C Common Stock, which the Dell Technologies board of directors may make in its sole discretion, so long as the Class C Common Stock is then traded on a U.S. securities exchange; 

•decisions regarding the increase or decrease of the inter-group interest that the DHI Group may own in the Class V Group from time to time; 

•decisions as to the internal or external financing attributable to businesses or assets attributed to either of Dell Technologies' groups; 

•decisions as to the dispositions of assets of either of Dell Technologies' groups; and 

•decisions as to the payment of dividends on the stock relating to either of Dell Technologies' groups. 

Ownership of DHI Group Common Stock and Class V Common Stock by Dell Technologies' directors or officers may create or appear to create conflicts of interest. 

With the exception of the three independent directors who serve as Group I Directors (whose equity compensation by Dell Technologies must be approximately half in the form of Class V Common Stock or options to acquire Class V Common Stock based on value at the time of grant), it is expected that all or substantially all of the direct and indirect equity ownership in Dell Technologies of Dell Technologies' directors and officers will continue to consist of DHI Group Common Stock. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors may not change the Dell Technologies tracking stock policy without the approval of the Capital Stock Committee, which currently consists solely of independent directors, but any such change may be made to the detriment of either group without stockholder approval. 

These policies are not included in the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation. Because these policies relate to matters concerning the day-to-day management of Dell Technologies as opposed to significant corporate actions, such as a merger involving Dell Technologies or a sale of substantially all of Dell Technologies' assets, no stockholder approval is required with respect to their adoption or amendment. These policies also set forth the initial allocation of Dell Technologies' businesses, assets, and liabilities between the groups. 

Holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group may not have any remedies if any action by Dell Technologies' directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that stock. 

Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of the Dell Technologies board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group. Judicial opinions in Delaware involving tracking stocks have established that decisions by directors or officers involving differing treatment of holders of tracking stocks may be judged under the business judgment rule. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule referred to above, Dell Technologies stockholders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions they believe have a disparate impact upon the stockholders of one of Dell Technologies' groups if a majority of the Dell Technologies board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken, and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the Dell Technologies board of directors is acting in the best interests of Dell Technologies and all of Dell Technologies' stockholders. 

Dell Technologies may dispose of assets of the Class V Group without the approval of holders of the Class V Common Stock. 

Delaware law requires stockholder approval only for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Dell Technologies taken as a whole, and the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation does not require a separate class vote in the case of a sale of a significant amount of assets attributed to any of Dell Technologies' groups. 

If Dell Technologies disposes of all or substantially all of the assets attributed to the Class V Group (which means, for this purpose, assets representing 80% of the fair value of the total assets of the Class V Group as of such date, as determined by the Dell Technologies board of directors), Dell Technologies would be required, if the disposition is not an excluded transaction under the terms of the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation, to choose one or more of the following three alternatives: 

•declare and pay a dividend on the Class V Common Stock; 

•redeem shares of the Class V Common Stock in exchange for cash, securities, or other property; or 

•so long as the Class C Common Stock is then traded on a U.S. securities exchange, convert all or a portion of the outstanding Class V Common Stock into Class C Common Stock. 

In this type of a transaction, holders of the Class V Common Stock may receive less value than the value that a third-party buyer might pay for all or substantially all of the assets of the Class V Group. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors will decide, in its sole discretion, how to proceed and is not required to select the option that would result in the highest value to holders of any group of Dell Technologies' common stock. 

Holders of Class V Common Stock may receive less consideration upon a sale of the assets attributed to the Class V Group than if such group were a separate company. 

Accordingly, if Dell Technologies sells all or substantially all of the assets attributed to the Class V Group, the value of Dell Technologies' stockholders' investment in Dell Technologies could decrease. As a result, stockholders of a separate, independent company with the same assets might receive a greater amount of proceeds than the holders of Class V Common Stock would receive upon a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Class V Group. 

In the event of a liquidation of Dell Technologies, holders of Class V Common Stock will not have a priority with respect to the assets attributed to the Class V Group remaining for distribution to stockholders. 

Hence, the assets to be distributed to a holder of Class V Common Stock upon a liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of Dell Technologies will not be linked to the relative value of the assets attributed to the Class V Group at that time or to changes in the relative value of the DHI Group Common Stock and the Class V Common Stock over time. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors in its sole discretion may elect to convert the Class V Common Stock into Class C Common Stock, thereby changing the nature of the investment. 

A conversion would preclude the holders of Class V Common Stock from retaining their investment in a security that is intended to reflect separately the performance of the Class V Group. 

Upon any such conversion, for example, holders would no longer have special class voting rights or be subject to certain redemption or conversion provisions related to the Class V Group. 

Holders of DHI Group Common Stock and Class V Common Stock generally vote together and holders of Class V Common Stock have limited separate voting rights. 

Each share of Class V Common Stock and Class C Common Stock has one vote per share. Holders of DHI Group Common Stock and Class V Common Stock vote together as a single class, except in certain limited circumstances prescribed by the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law. 

As of February 2, 2018, the number of votes to which holders of Class V Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 4% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled, the number of votes to which holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 72% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled, the number of votes to which holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled represent approximately 24% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled, and the number of votes to which holders of Class C Common Stock are entitled represent less than 1% of the total number of votes to which all holders of Dell Technologies common stock are entitled. 

Certain restrictions provided in the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation will lapse on the two-year anniversary of the closing of the EMC merger transaction, which would allow Dell Technologies to cause VMware, Inc. Class A common stock to cease to be publicly listed and would prevent investors who may view the market price of VMware, Inc. Class A common stock as relevant to a valuation of the VMware business from accessing sale information. 

Certain restrictions in the Dell Technologies, Inc. certificate of incorporation prohibit Dell Technologies from acquiring shares of VMware, Inc. common stock for two years after the closing of the EMC merger transaction in September 2016 in circumstances in which the VMware, Inc. Class A common stock would cease to be listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, subject to certain exceptions related to tax consolidation. 

Holders of Class V Common Stock may not benefit from any potential premiums paid to the public holders of VMware, Inc. Class A common stock. 

Dell Technologies or other persons may choose to purchase shares of VMware, Inc. Class A common stock at a premium, and holders of Class V Common Stock would not be entitled to a similar premium for their shares of Class V Common Stock in such circumstances. 

Dell Technologies' capital structure, as well as the fact that the Class V Group is not an independent company, may inhibit or prevent acquisition bids for the Class V Group and may make it difficult for a third party to acquire Dell Technologies, even if doing so may be beneficial to Dell Technologies' stockholders. 

Although Dell Technologies intends the Class V Common Stock to reflect the separate economic performance of the Class V Group, the group is not a separate entity and a person interested in acquiring only the Class V Group without negotiation with Dell Technologies' management could obtain control of the group only by obtaining control of a majority in voting power of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Dell Technologies. 

Certain provisions of the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation and the Dell Technologies bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of Dell Technologies that a stockholder may consider favorable. 

•limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; 

•advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Dell Technologies board of directors and for proposals for other businesses; and 

•the existence of authorized and unissued stock, including "blank check" preferred stock, which could be issued by the Dell Technologies board of directors without approval of the holders of Dell Technologies common stock to persons friendly to Dell Technologies' then-current management, thereby protecting the continuity of Dell Technologies' management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of Dell Technologies. 

 Further, as a Delaware corporation, Dell Technologies is subject to provisions of Delaware law that may deter a takeover attempt that its stockholders may find beneficial. 

The Dell Technologies board of directors is authorized to issue and designate shares of preferred stock in additional series without stockholder approval. 

The powers, preferences, and rights of these additional series of preferred stock may be senior to or on parity with Dell Technologies' classes of common stock, including the Class V Common Stock, which may reduce the value of the Class V Common Stock. 

Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by Dell Technologies or holders of Class V Common Stock in the public market could cause the market price for the Class V Common Stock to decline. 

The sale of substantial amounts of shares of the Class V Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of the Class V Common Stock. 

ITEM 1B — UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 