Dell Technologies is a strategically aligned family of businesses, poised to become the essential infrastructure company, from the edge to the core to the cloud, as we continue our mission to advance human progress through technology. 

Dell Technologies brings together the entire infrastructure from hardware to software to services. Through our recent combination with EMC, Dell Technologies offers next-generation solutions through our Client Solutions Group, Infrastructure Solutions Group, VMware, Inc. (NYSE: VMW), RSA Information Security ("RSA"), SecureWorks Corp. ("SecureWorks"), Pivotal Software, Inc. ("Pivotal"), Boomi, Inc. ("Boomi"), and Virtustream, Inc. ("Virtustream"). In addition, we provide important value differentiators through our extended warranty and delivery offerings, and software and peripherals, which are closely tied to the sale of our hardware products. 

As we innovate to make our customers' existing IT increasingly productive, we help them reinvest their savings into the next generation of technologies that they need to succeed in the digital economy. 

During Fiscal 2018, we celebrated the one year anniversary of our historic merger with EMC, and recognize the many accomplishments we have made since the merger. These accomplishments include the broad expansion of our product portfolio, integration of our supply chain, and achievement of revenue synergies across the business. We will continue our focus on building superior customer relationships through our direct model and our network of channel partners, which includes value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. 

We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products and services. 

•Client Solutions Group ("CSG") — Offerings by CSG include branded hardware, such as personal computers ("PCs"), notebooks, and branded peripherals, such as monitors and projectors, as well as third-party software and peripherals. 

Our computing devices are designed with our commercial and consumer customers' needs in mind, and we seek to optimize performance, reliability, manageability, design, and security. In addition to our traditional PC business, we also have a portfolio of thin client offerings that is well-positioned to benefit from the growth trends in cloud computing. 

Approximately 50% of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA") and in Asia Pacific and Japan ("APJ"). 

•Infrastructure Solutions Group ("ISG") — EMC's Information Storage segment and our existing Enterprise Solutions Group were combined in Fiscal 2017 to create the Infrastructure Solutions Group. Strengths in core server and storage solutions enable us to offer leading converged and hyper-converged solutions, which allow our customers to accelerate their IT transformation by acquiring scalable integrated IT solutions instead of building and assembling their own IT platforms. ISG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. 

ISG includes Virtustream product and service offerings. Beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, we will no longer manage Virtustream within ISG and, as such, will report Virtustream results within other businesses, rather than within ISG. 

Approximately 50% of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ. 

See Exhibit 99.1 filed with this report for further details on the differences between VMware reportable segment results and VMware, Inc. results. 

VMware Cloud on AWS enables customers to run applications across vSphere-based private, public, and hybrid cloud environments. VMware has continued to broaden its product and solution offerings beyond compute virtualization to include offerings that allow organizations to manage IT resources across private clouds and complex multi-cloud, multi-device environments by leveraging synergies across three categories: software-defined data center; hybrid cloud computing; and end-user computing. During Fiscal 2018, VMware entered into a strategic alliance with Amazon Web Services ("AWS") to offer an integrated hybrid offering, VMware Cloud on AWS. 

Approximately 50% of VMware revenue is generated by sales to customers in the United States. 

These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively, as the results of the businesses are not material to our overall results and the businesses do not meet the criteria for reportable segments. 

•RSA provides essential cybersecurity solutions engineered to enable organizations to detect, investigate, and respond to advanced attacks, confirm and manage identities, and, ultimately, help reduce IP theft, fraud, and cybercrime. 

•SecureWorks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a leading global provider of intelligence-driven information security solutions singularly focused on protecting its clients from cyber attacks. 

Pivotal's cloud-native platform, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, accelerates and streamlines software development by reducing the complexity of building, deploying and operating new cloud-native applications and modernizing legacy applications. •Pivotal provides a leading cloud-native platform that makes software development and IT operations a strategic advantage for customers. 

•Boomi specializes in cloud-based integration, connecting information between existing on-premise and cloud-based applications to ensure business processes are optimized, data is accurate, and workflow is reliable. 

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our other businesses. 

For further discussion regarding our current reportable segments, see "Part II — Item 7 —Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Business Unit Results." 

We also offer or arrange various financing options and services for our customers in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand through Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ("DFS"). For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate highly desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. 

VMware also has strong ties to leading academic institutions around the world, and invests in joint research with academia. 

These investments reflect our commitment to R&D activities that ultimately support our mission: to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT. 

We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. 

We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and building a world-class supply chain. 

Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. 

Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. 

We also have implemented Lean Six Sigma methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. 

We maintain a robust Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. 

In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on single-source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. 

Our global corporate headquarters is located in Round Rock, Texas. We have operations and conduct business in many countries located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and other geographic regions. Accordingly, we pursue the development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets. 

We compete based on our ability to offer customers competitive, scalable, and integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features at a competitive price. We believe that our strong relationships with our customers and channel partners allow us to respond quickly to changing customer needs and other macroeconomic factors. 

We believe that new businesses will continue to enter these markets and develop technologies that, if commercialized, may compete with our products and services. See "Item 1A — Risk Factors" for information about our competitive risks. 

We operate a diversified business model with the majority of our revenue and operating income derived from commercial clients that consist of large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and public sector customers. 

Our customers include large global and national corporate businesses, public institutions that include government, educational institutions, healthcare organizations, and law enforcement agencies, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers. Our go-to-market strategy includes a direct business model, as well as channel distribution. Our direct business model emphasizes direct communication with customers, thereby allowing us to refine our products and marketing programs for specific customers groups, and we continue to pursue this strategy. 

Increasingly, we also engage with customers through our social media communities on www.delltechnologies.com and in external social media channels. 

For large business and institutional customers, we maintain a field sales force throughout the world. Dedicated account teams, which include technical sales specialists, form long-term relationships to provide our largest customers with a single source of assistance, develop tailored solutions for these customers, position the capabilities of Dell Technologies, and provide us with customer feedback. 

As of February 2, 2018, we held a worldwide portfolio of 16,563 patents and had an additional 11,774 patent applications pending. Our product, business method, and manufacturing process patents may establish barriers to entry in many product lines. To replace expiring patents, we obtain new patents through our ongoing research and development activities. We anticipate that our worldwide patent portfolio will continue to be of value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry. 

We have pending applications to register Dell EMC word marks. As of February 2, 2018, we owned registrations for 336 of our other trademarks in the United States and had pending applications for registration of 64 other trademarks. 

From time to time, other companies and individuals assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are alleged to be relevant to the technology industry or our business. 

Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are owned by us. 

Such regulation includes the activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; the anti-trust regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Union; the consumer protection laws and financial services regulation of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state governmental agencies; the export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of the Treasury; the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and the U.S. Department of Transportation; the health information privacy and security requirements of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and the environmental, employment and labor, and other regulatory activities of a variety of governmental authorities in each of the countries in which we conduct business. 

We remain committed to putting our technology and expertise to work where it can do the most good for people and our planet. This commitment is intimately tied to our business goals of driving growth, helping mitigate risk, and ensuring business opportunities by building our brand. 

The following are key areas of focus in our Legacy of Good plan: 

Creating Net Positive Outcomes — Creating net positive outcomes means putting back more into society, the environment, and the global economy than we take out. 

Energy Efficiency — We have set a goal to reduce the energy intensity of our entire product portfolio by 80% by 2020. 

When our products reach the end of their life cycles, we make it easy for customers to recycle their obsolete electronic equipment. 

Within our own operations, we look at how materials can be used, or reused, in ways that extend their value. 

Reducing Our Footprint, Caring for Our Planet — We are focused on reducing the impact of our operations on the environment. 

Many of our locations purchase some or all of their electricity from renewable sources and many of our manufacturing facilities are approaching zero waste to landfill. 

Further, Dell is committed to maintaining the vitality of our oceans with our work concerning ocean-bound plastics used in our supply chain. 

Social and Environmental Responsibility ("SER") in the Supply Chain — We are committed to responsible business practices and hold ourselves and our suppliers to a high standard of excellence. We work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce risks that could lead to harm of workers, production suspensions, factory shut-downs, or environmental damage. 

We have a strong commitment to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math ("STEM") and other youth learning activities, providing funding, volunteer time, and technology to underserved populations. 

Over the past six years, we have increased computational capacity over three times, and increased storage speeds and capacity to over four times that of the original systems, thereby reducing the time it takes to sequence a genome from multiple weeks to just six hours. 

The Fiscal 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is available at www.dell.com/crreport, and the Fiscal 2018 report is expected to be available in June 2018. 

Product backlog at any point in time may not result in the generation of any predictable amount of net revenue in any subsequent period. Moreover, product backlog at any point in time may not result in the generation of any predictable amount of net revenue in any subsequent period, as unfilled orders can generally be canceled at any time by the customer. 

At the end of Fiscal 2018, we had approximately 145,000 total full-time employees, approximately 22,000 of whom were employees of VMware, Inc. 

We are a holding company that conducts our operations through subsidiaries. 

We changed our name to Dell Technologies Inc. on August 25, 2016. 

The contents of our website are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

DHI Group and Class V Group 

Dell Technologies has two groups of common stock, denoted as the DHI Group Common Stock and the Class V Common Stock. The DHI Group Common Stock consists of four classes of common stock, referred to as Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class C Common Stock, and Class D Common Stock. The Class V Common Stock is intended to track the economic performance of approximately 61% of Dell Technologies' economic interest in the Class V Group as of such date. 

The following table sets forth, as of March 29, 2018, information about our executive officers, who are appointed by our board of directors. 

Michael S. Dell — Mr. Dell serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Dell Technologies. He serves as a member of the Technology CEO Council and is a member of the U.S. Business Council and the Business Roundtable. In 1998, Mr. Dell formed MSD Capital for the purpose of managing his and his family's investments, and, in 1999, he and his wife established the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation to provide philanthropic support to a variety of global causes. He also serves on the governing board of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India, and is a board member of Catalyst, Inc., a non-profit organization that promotes inclusive workplaces for women. 

In addition to his marketing responsibilities, Mr. Burton leads Corporate Development, with responsibility for mergers and acquisitions and venture capital investment activity. He was EMC's Executive Vice President, Product Operations and Marketing from July 2012 to March 2014. 

Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Burton held several senior leadership roles, including serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Serena Software, Inc., a global independent software company, and as Group President of the Security and Data Management Business Unit of Symantec Corporation, a provider of security, storage, and systems management solutions. Prior to joining Symantec, he served as Executive Vice President of the Data Management Group and as Chief Marketing Officer at VERITAS Software Corporation (now a part of Symantec). For more information, see "Part II — Item 9B — Other Information" included in this report. 

In addition, Mr. Clarke currently leads customer support, sales operations, commerce services functions, and IT planning and governance globally for Dell. From January 2003 until January 2009, Mr. Clarke served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group. In 1995, Mr. Clarke became the director of desktop development. Mr. Clarke joined Dell in 1987 as a quality engineer and has served in a variety of other engineering and management roles. 

Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Elias served in various capacities at Hewlett-Packard Company, a provider of information technology products, services, and solutions for enterprise customers, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Management and Operations for the Enterprise Systems Group. Mr. Elias oversees technology and deployment services, consulting services, global support services, education services, global Centers of Excellence, and the IT organization. Mr. Elias was also a co-founder and served on the board of managers for the Virtual Computing Environment Company, now part of Dell Technologies' converged platform division. Mr. Elias is a director of TEGNA Inc., a media and digital business company. 

Marius Haas — Mr. Haas serves as President and Chief Commercial Officer of Dell Technologies, responsible for the global go-to-market organization, delivering innovative and practical solutions to commercial customers. Before his service in that role, Mr. Haas served at Hewlett-Packard Company's Networking Division as Senior Vice President and Worldwide General Manager from 2008 to 2011 and as Chief of Staff to the CEO and Senior Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development from 2003 to 2008. Mr. Haas currently serves on the board of directors of the US-China Business Council. 

In this role, Mr. Price is responsible for overall human resources strategy in support of the purpose, values, and business initiatives of Dell Technologies. Mr. Price previously served as Dell's Senior Vice President, Human 

Prior to joining Dell in 1997, Mr. Price spent 13 years with SC Johnson Wax, a producer of consumer products based in Racine, Wisconsin. Resources from June 2010 to September 2016. 

Ms. Quintos previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer ("CMO") for Dell from September 2010 to September 2016, where she led marketing for Dell's global commercial business, brand strategy, global communications, social media, corporate responsibility, customer insights, marketing talent development, and agency management. Ms. Quintos also leads the Diversity and Inclusion and Corporate Responsibility business imperatives, which encompass social responsibility, entrepreneurship, and diversity. Ms. Quintos came to Dell from Citigroup, Inc., an investment banking and financial services company, where she served as Vice President of Global Operations and Technology. Ms. Quintos also is founder and executive sponsor of Dell's Wise employee resource group. 

Rory Read — Mr. Read serves as Chief Operating Executive and Chief Integration Officer, Dell. From March 2015 to October 2015, Mr. Read served as Chief Operating Officer and President of Worldwide Commercial Sales for Dell, where he was responsible for cross-business unit and country-level operational planning, building and leading Dell's best-in-class sales engine, and overseeing the strategy for the company's global channel team, system integrator partners, and direct sales force. Mr. Read also spent 23 years at International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), a technology and consulting company, serving in various leadership roles in the Asia-Pacific region and globally. 

He is also responsible for global security. Richard J. Rothberg — Mr. Rothberg serves as General Counsel and Secretary for Dell Technologies. Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Rothberg spent nearly eight years in senior legal roles at Caterpillar Inc., an equipment manufacturing company, in senior legal roles in Nashville, Tennessee and Geneva, Switzerland. He also led the government affairs organization worldwide. Mr. Rothberg was also an attorney for IBM Credit Corporation and at Rogers & Wells, a law firm. 

In this role, to which he was appointed in July 2012, Mr. Scannell focused on driving coordination and teamwork among EMC's business unit sales forces, as well as building and maintaining relationships with EMC's largest global accounts, global alliance partners, and global channel partners. He is responsible for driving global growth and continued market leadership by delivering and supporting enterprise products, services, and solutions to organizations in established and new markets around the world. Previously, Mr. Scannell served as President, Global Sales and Customer Operations at EMC Corporation. 

He then managed worldwide sales in 2001 and 2002 before being appointed Executive Vice President in 2007. 

From May 2007 to January 2014, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership roles for Dell, including as Vice President of Corporate Finance, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer with responsibility for global accounting, tax, treasury, and investor relations, as well as for global finance services. Thomas W. Sweet — Mr. Sweet serves as Chief Financial Officer of Dell Technologies. Mr. Sweet was responsible for external financial reporting for more than five years when Dell Inc. was a publicly-traded company. 