ITEM 7 — MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. 

Additionally, unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current-period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding fiscal period. 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this report to "we," "us," "our," the "Company," and "Dell Technologies" mean Dell Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to "Dell" mean Dell Inc. and Dell Inc.'s consolidated subsidiaries, and references to "EMC" mean EMC Corporation and EMC Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries. 

We refer to our fiscal years ended February 2, 2018, February 3, 2017, and January 29, 2016 as "Fiscal 2018," "Fiscal 2017," and "Fiscal 2016," respectively. Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2016 included 52 weeks. 

Accordingly, the results of operations of Dell Services, DSG, and ECD, as well as the related gains or losses on sale, have been excluded from the results of continuing operations in the relevant periods, except as otherwise indicated. During Fiscal 2017, we closed the Dell Services, Dell Software Group ("DSG"), and Enterprise Content Division ("ECD") divestiture transactions. 

Dell Technologies is a strategically aligned family of businesses, poised to become the essential infrastructure company, from the edge to the core to the cloud, as we continue our mission to advance human progress through technology. 

Dell Technologies brings together the entire infrastructure from hardware to software to services. Through our recent combination with EMC, Dell Technologies offers next-generation solutions through our Client Solutions Group, Infrastructure Solutions Group, VMware, Inc., RSA Information Security ("RSA"), SecureWorks Corp. ("SecureWorks"), Pivotal Software, Inc. ("Pivotal"), Boomi, Inc. ("Boomi"), and Virtustream, Inc. ("Virtustream"). In addition, we provide important value differentiators through our extended warranty and delivery offerings, and software and peripherals, which are closely tied to the sale of our hardware products. 

As we innovate to make our customers' existing IT increasingly productive, we help them reinvest their savings into the next generation of technologies that they need to succeed in the digital economy. 

These accomplishments include the broad expansion of our product 

With these accomplishments, we believe we are well-positioned for long-term sustainable growth and innovation. We will continue our focus on building superior customer relationships through our direct model and our network of channel partners, which includes value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. 

Due to our divestitures of Dell Services, Dell Software Group, and Dell EMC Enterprise Content Division, the results of these businesses, as well as the related gains or losses on sale, have been excluded from the results of continuing operations in the relevant periods, except as otherwise indicated. 

•Client Solutions Group ("CSG") — Offerings by CSG include branded hardware, such as desktop PCs, notebooks, and workstations, and branded peripherals, such as monitors, and projectors. 

Approximately half of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region ("EMEA") and the Asia-Pacific and Japan region ("APJ"). 

The comprehensive portfolio of advanced storage solutions includes traditional storage solutions as well as next-generation storage solutions (including all-flash arrays and scale-out file, and object platforms). ISG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. 

Approximately half of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ. 

See Exhibit 99.1 filed with this report for further details on the differences between VMware reportable segment results and VMware, Inc. results. 

VMware provides compute, cloud, mobility, networking and security infrastructure software to businesses that provides a flexible digital foundation for the applications that empower businesses to serve their customers globally. 

Approximately half of VMware revenue is generated by sales to customers in the United States. 

These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively, as the results of the businesses are not material to our overall results and the businesses do not meet the criteria for reportable segments. 

•RSA provides essential cybersecurity solutions engineered to enable organizations to detect, investigate, and respond to advanced attacks, confirm and manage identities, and, ultimately, help reduce IP theft, fraud, and cybercrime. 

•SecureWorks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a leading global provider of intelligence-driven information security solutions singularly focused on protecting its clients from cyber attacks. 

•Pivotal provides a leading cloud-native platform that makes software development and IT operations a strategic advantage for customers. Pivotal's cloud-native platform, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, accelerates and streamlines software development by reducing the complexity of building, deploying and operating new cloud-native applications and modernizing legacy applications. 

•Boomi specializes in cloud-based integration, connecting information between existing on-premise and cloud-based applications to ensure business processes are optimized, data is accurate and workflow is reliable. 

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our other businesses. 

For further discussion regarding our current reportable segments, see "Results of Operations — Business Unit Results." 

We also offer or arrange various financing options and services for our customers in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand through Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ("DFS"). For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

As part of our strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic investments through our venture capital investment arm, Dell Technologies Capital, with a focus on emerging technology areas that are relevant to the Dell Technologies' unique family of businesses and that will complement our existing portfolio of solutions. 

Organizations of all kinds are embracing digital technology to achieve their business objectives. Our vision is to be an essential infrastructure company and leader in end-user computing, data center infrastructure solutions, virtualization, Internet of Things ("IoT"), and cloud software that our customers continue to trust and rely on for their IT solutions and transformations as they embrace the multi-cloud environment of today. We accelerate results for our customers by enabling them to be more efficient, mobile, informed, and secure. We intend to continue to execute on our business model and seek to balance liquidity, profitability, and growth to position our company for long-term success. 

Given current market trends, we expect that the demand environment will continue to be cyclical and that competitive dynamics will continue to pressure our CSG business. Our CSG offerings remain an important element of our strategy, generating strong cash flow and opportunities for cross-selling of complementary solutions. 

We expect that ISG will continue to be impacted by the changing nature of the IT infrastructure market and competitive environment. We believe the complementary cloud solutions across our business, created through our combination with EMC, strongly position us to meet these demands for our customers who are increasingly looking to leverage cloud-based computing. We have leading solutions through our ISG and VMware data center offerings. 

We expect these flexible consumption models will further strengthen our customer relationships, and will provide more predictable revenue streams over time. 

During Fiscal 2018, we experienced higher component costs that primarily impacted CSG and ISG. 

The percentage of our revenues generated in regions outside of the United States did not change substantially as a result of the EMC merger transaction. Our revenues, therefore, can be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

As described in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, on September 7, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies Inc. ("Merger Sub") merged with and into EMC Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation ("EMC"), with EMC surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies Inc. (the "EMC merger transaction"). 

Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, upon the completion of the EMC merger transaction, each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of EMC (approximately 2.0 billion as of September 7, 2016) was converted into the right to receive (1) $24.05 in cash, without interest, and (2) 0.11146 validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of common stock of Dell Technologies Inc. designated as Class V Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, plus cash in lieu of any fractional shares. 

The aggregate amounts of principal, interest, and premium necessary to redeem in full the outstanding $1.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior First Lien Notes due 2020 co-issued by Dell International and Denali Finance Corp. were deposited with the trustee for such notes, and such notes were thereby satisfied and discharged, concurrently with the effective time of the EMC merger transaction. All of Dell's other outstanding senior notes and all of EMC's outstanding senior notes remained outstanding after the effective time of the EMC merger transaction in accordance with their respective terms. 

Dell Technologies financed the EMC merger transaction, the repayment of the foregoing indebtedness of EMC and Dell outstanding as of the closing of the EMC merger transaction, and the payment of related fees and expenses, with debt financing arrangements in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $45.9 billion, equity financing arrangements of approximately $4.4 billion, and cash on hand of approximately $7.8 billion. 

See Note 3 and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding the EMC merger transaction and the related financing transactions. 

These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP product net revenue; non-GAAP services net revenue; non-GAAP net revenue; non-GAAP product gross margin; non-GAAP services gross margin; non-GAAP gross margin; non-GAAP operating expenses; non-GAAP operating income; non-GAAP net income from continuing operations; earnings before interest and other, net, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"); and adjusted EBITDA. 

We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and better project our future consolidated financial performance as forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. 

Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. 

The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for net revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, or net income prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. 

We encourage you to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. 

The following is a summary of the items excluded from the most comparable GAAP financial measures to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures: 

Accordingly, for the periods presented, amortization of intangible assets represents amortization associated with intangible assets recognized in connection with the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction. We exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. 

•Impact of Purchase Accounting — The impact of purchase accounting includes purchase accounting adjustments, related to the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction, recorded under the acquisition method of accounting in 

accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations. The purchase accounting adjustments and related amortization of those adjustments are reflected in our GAAP results; however, we evaluate the operating results of the underlying businesses on a non-GAAP basis, after removing such adjustments. We believe that excluding the impact of purchase accounting provides results that are useful in understanding our current operating performance and provides more meaningful comparisons to our past operating performance. 

These expenses primarily represent costs for legal, banking, consulting, and advisory services, as well as certain compensatory retention awards directly related to the EMC merger transaction and related integration. 

•Other Corporate Expenses — Other corporate expenses consists of severance, facility action costs, and stock-based compensation expense associated with equity awards. Facility action costs were $0.2 billion during Fiscal 2018. We expect to incur additional costs in Fiscal 2019 as we continue to integrate owned and leased facilities and as we seek opportunities for operational efficiencies and cost savings. 

Tax Reform” or the “Act”) which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the above items were incurred. During Fiscal 2017, this amount also includes tax charges of $0.2 billion on previously untaxed earnings of a foreign subsidiary that will no longer be permanently reinvested as a result of the Dell Services and DSG divestitures. 

The table below presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure for each of the periods presented: 

We believe that, due to the non-operational nature of the purchase accounting entries, it is appropriate to exclude these adjustments. 

As is the case with the non-GAAP measures presented above, users should consider the limitations of using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that those measures do not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. 

The table below presents a reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to net loss from continuing operations for the periods presented: 

(a)See "Results of Operations — Interest and Other, Net" for more information on the components of interest and other, net. 

(b)This amount includes the non-cash purchase accounting adjustments related to the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction. 

(c)Transaction-related expenses consist of acquisition, integration, and divestiture related costs. 

(d)Consists of severance and facility action costs. 

The following table summarizes our consolidated results from continuing operations for each of the periods presented. 

(a) Product gross margin percentages represent product gross margin as a percentage of product net revenue, and non-GAAP product gross margin percentages represent product gross margin as a percentage of non-GAAP product net revenue. 

(b)Services gross margin percentages represent services gross margin as a percentage of services net revenue, and non-GAAP services gross margin percentages represent services gross margin as a percentage of non-GAAP services net revenue. 

See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including these measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 

As a result of the EMC merger transaction completed on September 7, 2016 and its impact on Fiscal 2017 results, our results for the fiscal periods discussed below are not directly comparable. 

In comparison, CSG net revenue constituted a higher proportion of our net revenue during Fiscal 2017, representing approximately 60% of our net revenue. CSG net revenue represented approximately 50% of our net revenue during Fiscal 2018. 

While the EMC acquired businesses contributed higher gross margin overall, we experienced gross margin pressure in ISG related to the changing product mix within ISG as well as component cost inflation, particularly for memory components used in ISG products. 

Excluding these adjustments, non-GAAP operating income during Fiscal 2018 increased 34% to $6.9 billion, primarily as a result of an increase in operating income for VMware and, to a lesser extent, CSG. 

The increase in operating cash flows during Fiscal 2018 was driven by improved profitability, including the incremental profitability from the EMC acquired businesses, and ongoing working capital initiatives. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

During Fiscal 2018, our net revenue and non-GAAP net revenue increased 28%, and 27%, respectively, primarily due to the incremental net revenue from the EMC acquired businesses and, to a lesser extent, an increase in CSG net revenue. 

From a geographical perspective, net revenue generated by sales to customers in all regions increased in Fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of the incremental net revenue from the EMC acquired businesses. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Our non-GAAP net revenue increased 22% during Fiscal 2017, primarily due to the impact from the EMC acquired businesses. 

See "Business Unit Results" for further information regarding revenue from our products, services, and software offerings. 

From a geographical perspective, net revenue generated by sales to customers in all regions increased during Fiscal 2017 primarily as a result of the impact from the EMC acquired businesses. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

The increases in our gross margin and gross margin percentage were primarily attributable to incremental gross margin from the EMC acquired businesses, which have higher gross margin percentages. 

Excluding these costs, transaction-related expenses, and other corporate expenses, total non-GAAP gross margin for Fiscal 2018 increased 50% to $25.2 billion and non-GAAP gross margin percentage increased 470 basis points to 31.5%. 

The increase in non-GAAP product gross margin from the EMC acquired businesses was partially offset by component cost pressures in CSG and ISG. 

Our gross margins include benefits relating primarily to settlements from certain vendors regarding their past pricing practices. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

The increase in our total gross margin was primarily attributable to incremental gross margin of approximately $3.7 billion from the EMC acquired businesses, which had higher gross margin percentages. The effects of these factors on total gross margin were partially offset by the impact of purchase accounting adjustments and amortization of intangibles related to the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction. 

In comparison, the impacts of purchase 

accounting adjustments and amortization of intangibles were $0.9 billion in Fiscal 2016, and in this period related only to the going-private transaction. 

The increase in non-GAAP product gross margin was primarily attributable to the incremental product gross margin from the EMC acquired businesses and an increase in CSG gross margin. 

We manage our costs on a total net cost basis, which includes supplier list prices reduced by vendor rebates and other discounts. We account for vendor rebates and other discounts as a reduction in cost of net revenue. 

The timing and amount of vendor rebates and other discounts we receive under the programs may vary from period to period, reflecting changes in the competitive environment. We monitor our component costs and seek to address the effects of any changes to terms that might arise under our vendor rebate programs. 

We have negotiated settlements with some of these vendors and may have additional settlements in future periods. Pricing settlements benefited product gross margins in Fiscal 2018, Fiscal 2017, and Fiscal 2016 by $68 million, $80 million, and $97 million, respectively. 

The following table presents information regarding our operating expenses during each of the periods presented: 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Our operating expenses include the impact of purchase accounting associated with the EMC merger transaction and, to a lesser extent, the going-private transaction, amortization of intangible assets, transaction-related expenses, and other corporate expenses. Excluding these costs, total non-GAAP operating expenses increased 57%. 

•Selling, General, and Administrative — Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased 40% during Fiscal 2018. 

We will continue to balance our efforts to drive cost efficiencies in the business with strategic investments in areas that will enable growth, such as our sales force, marketing, and R&D. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Excluding these costs, total non-GAAP operating expenses increased 65% primarily due to the impact from the EMC acquired businesses. These transaction-related expenses include consulting and advisory services and retention payments. Our operating expenses include purchase accounting adjustments associated with the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction, amortization of intangible assets, transaction-related expenses, and other corporate expenses. 

•Selling, General, and Administrative — SG&A expenses increased 73% during Fiscal 2017. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Our operating loss increased 2% during Fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher operating expenses from the EMC acquired businesses as well as an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the EMC merger transaction, mostly offset by an increase in gross margin. 

Our operating loss includes the impact of purchase accounting associated with the EMC merger transaction and, to a lesser extent, the going-private transaction, amortization of intangible assets, transaction-related expenses, and other corporate expenses. The increase in non-GAAP operating income for Fiscal 2018 was attributable to an increase in operating income for VMware and CSG. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Our operating loss includes purchase accounting adjustments associated with the EMC merger transaction and the going-private transaction, amortization of intangible assets, transaction-related expenses, and other corporate expenses. In aggregate, these items totaled $8.4 billion and $2.7 billion for Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. The increase in non-GAAP operating income was primarily attributable to an increase in gross margin, which was partially offset by higher operating expenses from the EMC acquired businesses. 

The following table provides information regarding interest and other, net for each of the periods presented: 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

During Fiscal 2018, changes in interest and other, net were unfavorable by $251 million primarily due to an increase in interest expense from new borrowings associated with the EMC merger transaction, which was partially offset by expenses incurred in Fiscal 2017 of approximately $337 million related to debt extinguishment and new borrowings that did not recur in Fiscal 2018. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

During Fiscal 2017, changes in interest and other, net were unfavorable by $1.3 billion, primarily due to an increase in interest expense from higher average debt balances from debt issued in connection with the EMC merger transaction, and to costs related to debt extinguishment associated with that transaction. 

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“U.S. Tax Reform” or the “Act”) was signed into law. 

Accordingly, we recognized a provisional tax benefit in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 of $0.3 billion related to U.S. Tax Reform, primarily driven by a $1.3 billion tax benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, offset by $1.0 billion of current and future income tax expenses related to the Transition Tax. 

The change in our effective income tax rate for Fiscal 2017 as compared to Fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to tax benefits from charges associated with the EMC merger transaction, including purchase accounting adjustments, interest charges, and stock-based compensation expense, which were primarily incurred in higher tax jurisdictions. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information on the EMC merger transaction. 

The majority of our foreign income that is subject to these tax holidays and lower tax rates is attributable to Singapore, China, and Malaysia. We have negotiated new terms for the affected subsidiary. These new terms provide for a reduced income tax rate and will be effective for a two-year bridge period expiring at the end of Fiscal 2019. Our other tax holidays will expire in whole or in part during Fiscal 2019 through Fiscal 2023. As discussed above, starting in Fiscal 2019, our U.S. corporate income tax rate will be lowered from 35% to 21%. These provisions could have a material impact on our future effective income tax rate. 

For further discussion regarding tax matters, including the status of income tax audits, see Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

During Fiscal 2018, net loss from continuing operations increased 3% to a net loss from continuing operations of $3.9 billion. The increase in non-GAAP net income from continuing operations during Fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increases in operating income, the effect of which was partially offset by increases in interest and other, net expense and income tax expense. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Excluding these costs, non-GAAP net income from continuing operations increased 155% to $2.7 billion during Fiscal 2017. The effect of these factors was partially offset by an increase in tax benefit during the period. The increase in non-GAAP net income from continuing operations during Fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in operating income, the effect of which was partially offset by an increase in interest and other, net expense. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests primarily consisted of net loss attributable to the non-controlling interest in VMware, Inc. For more information about our non-controlling interests, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

During Fiscal 2017, net loss attributable to non-controlling interests was $46 million. 

Net Income/Loss Attributable to Dell Technologies Inc. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

The increase in net loss attributable to Dell Technologies Inc. during Fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in net loss from continuing operations and the absence of income from our discontinued operations in Fiscal 2018, due to completion of the divestiture transactions in Fiscal 2017. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

The increase in Fiscal 2017 was due to an increase in net loss from continuing operations, offset partially by an increase in income from discontinued operations. 

Our reportable segments are based on the following business units: CSG, ISG, and VMware. 

The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to CSG for the respective periods: 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Net Revenue — During Fiscal 2018, CSG net revenue increased 7%, driven by an increase in overall average selling price in both the commercial and consumer product categories, as we managed our pricing in response to the cost environment during the period. 

From a geographical perspective, net revenue attributable to CSG increased across all regions during Fiscal 2018. 

This benefit was partially offset by increased component costs, which we were able to mitigate through pricing actions. We expect that component cost increases will moderate in Fiscal 2019. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Commercial net revenue benefited from an increase in volume of premium notebook and workstation units sold, partially offset by a decrease in overall average selling prices. Both commercial and consumer businesses experienced a decrease in overall average selling prices as we strategically managed our pricing position given competitive conditions and the favorable cost environment. 

From a geographical perspective, net revenue attributable to CSG increased in the Americas and APJ during Fiscal 2017, while net revenue in EMEA was unchanged. 

This increase was driven by improvement in our gross margin percentage, which was principally the result of a favorable cost position and a richer product mix of premium notebooks and workstations. 

The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to ISG for the respective periods: 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Revenue from servers and networking increased 20% during Fiscal 2018, driven by an increase in both average selling price and units sold of our PowerEdge server product. Although we experienced strong growth in all-flash and hyper-converged infrastructure products, we are experiencing reduced demand in ISG for certain elements of our storage portfolio, including traditional high-end and midrange storage offerings. We are addressing this dynamic through investments in our go-to-market capability and product enhancements. 

We expect these flexible consumption models will further strengthen our customer relationships, and will build more predictable revenue streams over time. 

From a geographical perspective, during Fiscal 2018, ISG net revenue increased in all regions due to the incremental revenue from the EMC acquired storage business. 

While the EMC acquired storage business contributed higher gross margin overall, we experienced gross margin pressure due to changing product mix within ISG as well as component cost inflation, particularly for memory components used in ISG products, which we expect to moderate in Fiscal 2019. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Revenue from servers and networking was relatively unchanged over the period, resulting from the offsetting dynamics of an increase in average selling prices due to a shift to PowerEdge servers with richer configurations, as well as to a decline in volume of PowerEdge units, as customer demand has shifted to cloud and hyperscale servers, which generally have a lower average selling price. 

From a geographical perspective, during Fiscal 2017, ISG net revenue increased in all regions due to the incremental revenue from the EMC acquired storage business. 

The increase in ISG operating income percentage was primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher gross margin percentages and operating income percentages from the EMC acquired businesses. 

The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to VMware for the respective periods: 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

VMware net revenue for Fiscal 2018 benefited from balanced performance in all major geographies and broad strength across the product portfolio. 

From a geographical perspective, approximately half of VMware net revenue during Fiscal 2018 was generated by sales to customers in the United States. 

Operating Income — During Fiscal 2018, VMware operating income as a percentage of net revenue was 31.8%, primarily driven by strong gross margin performance during the year. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Net Revenue — VMware net revenue during Fiscal 2017 represents revenue from the EMC merger transaction date of September 7, 2016 through February 3, 2017. 

From a geographical perspective, approximately half of VMware net revenue during Fiscal 2017 was generated by sales to customers in the United States. 

The VMware operating income percentage during Fiscal 2017 was impacted by the timing of the completion of the EMC merger transaction. 

We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including retail distribution. As of February 2, 2018 and February 3, 2017, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $103 million and $57 million, respectively. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. 

Dell Financial Services and Financing Receivables 

In some cases, we also offer financing on the purchase of third-party technology products that complement our portfolio of products and services. New financing originations were $6.3 billion, $4.5 billion, and $3.7 billion for Fiscal 2018, Fiscal 2017, and Fiscal 2016, respectively. 

We have securitization facilities to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through consolidated special purpose entities, referred to as SPEs, which we account for as secured borrowings. The DFS debt related to all of our securitization facilities included as secured borrowings was $3.9 billion and $3.1 billion as of February 2, 2018 and February 3, 2017, respectively. As a result of the EMC merger transaction, we are expanding our existing securitization facilities to allow for additional funding of customer receivables in the capital markets. 

For Fiscal 2018, Fiscal 2017, and Fiscal 2016, the principal charge-off rate for our total portfolio was 1.5%, 2.0%, and 2.5%, respectively. In general, the loss rates on our financing receivables have improved over the periods presented. We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total portfolio. We also sell selected fixed-term financing receivables to unrelated third parties on a periodic basis, primarily to manage certain concentrations of customer credit exposure. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. 

See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information about our financing receivables and the associated allowances. 

Deferred revenue is recorded when billings have been generated or payments have been received for undelivered products or services, or in situations where revenue recognition criteria have not been met. Deferred revenue represents amounts received in advance for extended warranty services, software maintenance, unearned license fees, and deferred profit on third-party software offerings. 

The increase in our deferred revenue was driven by a $2.2 billion increase in deferrals, primarily related to maintenance, extended warranty services, and the introduction of our flexible consumption model offerings. A majority of our deferred revenue as of February 2, 2018 is expected to be recognized over the next two years. 

As of February 2, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

MARKET CONDITIONS, LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL COMMITMENTS, AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS 

We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. 

We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. 

We use forward contracts and purchased options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our use of derivative instruments. 

As a result, we do not anticipate any material losses from interest rate risk. For additional information, see "Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 

The impact of any credit adjustments related to our use of counterparties on our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report has been immaterial. 

To support our ongoing business operations, we rely on operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. As of February 2, 2018, we had $13.9 billion of total cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which was held outside of the United States. 

However, local and U.S. state taxes may still apply. U.S. Tax Reform fundamentally changes the U.S. approach to taxation of foreign earnings to a modified territorial tax system, which generally allows companies to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the United States without incurring additional U.S. federal tax. 

The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents as well as our available borrowings as of February 2, 2018 and February 3, 2017: 

(a) Of the $13.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of February 2, 2018, $6.0 billion was held by VMware, Inc. 

Our revolving credit facilities include the Revolving Credit Facility and China Revolving Credit Facility. As of February 2, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under either facility and remaining available borrowings totaled approximately $3.8 billion. 

As of February 2, 2018, $1.0 billion was available under the VMware Revolving Credit Facility and $80 million was available under the Pivotal Revolving Credit Facility. 

We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, along with cash that will be provided by future operations and borrowings expected to be available under the Revolving Credit Facility and China Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient over at least the next twelve months to fund our operations, capital expenditures, share repurchases, debt service requirements, and other corporate needs. 

The following table summarizes our outstanding debt as of February 2, 2018 and February 3, 2017: 

We define core debt as the total principal amount of our debt, less: (a) DFS related debt, (b) other debt, and (c) unrestricted subsidiary debt. 

To fund expansion of the DFS business, we balance the use of our securitization and structure financing programs with other sources of liquidity. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our DFS debt. 

As of February 3, 2017, other debt primarily consisted of the Margin Bridge Facility and VMware Note Bridge Facility which were repaid during Fiscal 2018. 

Neither Dell Technologies nor any of its subsidiaries, other than VMware, Inc., is obligated to make payment on the VMware Notes. 

Our requirements for cash to pay principal and interest have increased significantly due to the borrowings that were required to finance the EMC merger transaction. 

See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our debt and our unrestricted subsidiaries. 

Additionally, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2018, we entered into the Margin Loan Facility in the principal amount of $2.0 billion, and used the proceeds of the new facility to repay the Margin Bridge Facility in full. We applied the proceeds from the Term Loan B Facility refinancing to repay $0.5 billion principal amount of the Margin Bridge Facility. 

As a result of the refinancing, the interest rate margin under each of these facilities decreased by 0.50% and the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan A-2 Facility increased by $672 million, which was used to pay $212 million principal amount of the Term Loan A-3 Facility and $460 million principal amount of the Term Loan B Facility. 

During Fiscal 2018, we repaid approximately $1.2 billion principal amount of our term loan facilities and $0.4 billion under the Revolving Credit Facility and issued an additional $1.3 billion, net, in DFS debt to support the expansion of the DFS financing receivables portfolio. 

Further, during the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, VMware, Inc. completed a public offering of senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion (the "VMware Notes"). VMware, Inc. used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to repay certain intercompany promissory notes previously issued by it to EMC in the aggregate principal amount of $1.2 billion. 

To finance the EMC merger transaction, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $45.9 billion in new debt, which included proceeds from the sale of the First Lien Notes and Senior Notes, as well as borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (including the Revolving Credit Facility), the Asset Sale Bridge Facility, the Margin Bridge Facility, and the VMware Note Bridge Facility at the closing of the transaction. 

The following table contains a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the respective periods: 

Operating Activities — Cash provided by operating activities was $6.8 billion for Fiscal 2018 compared to $2.3 billion for Fiscal 2017. The increase in operating cash flows during Fiscal 2018 was driven by improved profitability, predominantly due to the incremental profitability from the EMC acquired businesses, and ongoing working capital initiatives. 

Cash flow performance during both periods was strong and remained relatively unchanged as the incremental profitability from the EMC acquired businesses during Fiscal 2017 was largely offset by cash paid for transaction costs. 

During Fiscal 2018, cash used by investing activities was $2.9 billion and was primarily driven by capital expenditures, VMware Inc.'s Fiscal 2018 acquisitions, and the net purchases of investments. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further information regarding VMware, Inc.'s acquisitions. 

Cash used in investing activities during Fiscal 2016, which primarily consisted of capital expenditures, was $0.3 billion. 

Cash provided by financing activities of $0.4 billion during Fiscal 2018 was driven by net proceeds from debt, primarily due to the issuance of the VMware Notes, partially offset by cash used for share repurchases. 

Cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of $46.9 billion in cash proceeds from debt, $43.2 billion of which was issued in connection with the EMC merger transaction, and $4.4 billion in proceeds from the sale and issuance of our Class A, Class B, and Class C Common Stock for financing of that transaction. 

During Fiscal 2016, cash used in financing activities was $0.5 billion and primarily consisted of net repayments of debt. 

Our cash conversion cycle is presented below. Accordingly, we believe a consolidated cash conversion cycle no longer constitutes a key performance metric for Dell Technologies. 

The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the periods presented: 

(d)We calculate our cash conversion cycle using non-GAAP net revenue and non-GAAP cost of goods sold because we believe that excluding certain items from the GAAP results facilitates management's understanding of this key performance metric. 

The table below provides reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure used in calculating the DSO, DSI, and DPO metrics to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure: 

DSI also improved by two days, driven by efficient inventory management despite increased sales volume, while DSO was essentially flat. 

DPO decreased 12 days primarily due to supplier payments terms of the EMC acquired businesses, DSO increased 9 days primarily due to differences in collections management from the EMC acquired businesses, and a DSI increased 4 days primarily as a result of a longer inventory cycle associated with the EMC acquired product lines. 

We believe our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. 

These expenditures were primarily incurred in connection with our global expansion efforts and infrastructure investments made to support future growth. Capital Expenditures — During Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, we spent $1.2 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment. 

Shares repurchased under the DHI Group Repurchase Program are being held as treasury stock at cost. During the fiscal year ended February 3, 2017, we repurchased 7 million shares of Class V Common Stock for $324 million using cash of the DHI Group. 

During Fiscal 2018, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of Class V Common Stock for $82 million pursuant to and in completion of this initial authorization. 

On May 9, 2017, we completed the March 2017 Class V Group Repurchase Program, pursuant to which we repurchased 4.6 million shares of Class V Common Stock for $300 million. 

During Fiscal 2018, VMware, Inc. repurchased 1.4 million shares for $125 million pursuant to and in completion of the December 2016 Stock Purchase Agreement. We applied the proceeds from the sale to the repurchase of shares of our Class V Common Stock under the Class V Group Repurchase Program described above. 

In January 2017 and August 2017, VMware, Inc.'s board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.2 billion of shares of VMware, Inc. Class A common stock (the "January 2017 Authorization" for up to $1.2 billion through the end of Fiscal 2018, and the "August 2017 Authorization" for up to $1 billion through August 31, 2018). We applied the proceeds of the sales to the repurchase of shares of the Class V Common Stock under the March 2017 and August 2017 Class V Group Repurchase Programs described above. VMware, Inc. repurchased approximately 6.1 million shares of Class A common stock, consisting of 3.4 million shares pursuant to the March 2017 Stock Purchase Agreement and 2.7 million shares pursuant to the August 2017 Stock Purchase Agreement. 

During Fiscal 2018, VMware, Inc. repurchased 6.4 million shares of Class A common stock in the open market for $724 million. 

As of February 2, 2018, the cumulative authorized amount remaining for share repurchases by VMware, Inc. was $876 million, which represents the $2.2 billion authorized since January 2017, less $600 million Class A common stock repurchases from a subsidiary of the Company during Fiscal 2018, and less $724 million of the Class A common stock repurchases in the open market during Fiscal 2018. 

For more information regarding share repurchase programs, see Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of February 2, 2018: 

We have outstanding long-term notes with varying maturities. As of February 2, 2018, the future principal payments related to our DFS debt were expected to be $3.3 billion in Fiscal 2019, $1.4 billion in Fiscal 2020-2021, and immaterial thereafter. 

Operating Leases — We lease property and equipment, manufacturing facilities, and office space under non-cancelable leases. 

Purchase Obligations — Purchase obligations are defined as contractual obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us. 

Our efficient supply chain management allows us to enter into flexible and mutually beneficial purchase arrangements with our suppliers in order to minimize inventory risk. Consistent with industry practice, we acquire raw materials or other goods and services, including product components, by issuing to suppliers authorizations to purchase based on our projected demand and manufacturing needs. 

Interest — See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further discussion of our debt and related interest expense. 

We consider an accounting policy to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption is subject to a material level of judgment and if changes in those estimates or assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which requires certain estimates, assumptions, and judgments to be made that may affect our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances — We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and frequently enter into sales arrangements with customers that contain multiple elements or deliverables, such as hardware, services, software licenses, and peripherals. 

The primary factors affecting our accrual for estimated customer returns include estimated return rates as well as the number of units shipped that have a right of return that has not expired as of the balance sheet date. These reductions to revenue are made based upon reasonable and reliable estimates that are determined by historical experience, contractual terms, and current conditions. 

We sell our products directly to customers as well as through other channels, including value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. We have generally limited return rights through contractual caps or we have an established selling history for these arrangements. To the extent price protection or return rights are not limited and a reliable estimate cannot be made, all of the revenue and related costs are deferred until the product has been sold to the end-user or the rights expire. 

For arrangements in which a reseller is the principal, revenue is recognized on a net basis. 

As our business evolves, the mix of products and services sold will impact the timing of when revenue and related costs are recognized. 

Business Combinations and Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill — We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, and, accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired business are recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition. The cumulative impact of any subsequent changes to any purchase price allocations that are material to our consolidated financial results will be adjusted in the reporting period in which the adjustment amount is determined. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. 

The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date. 

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually during the third fiscal quarter and whenever events or circumstances may indicate that an impairment has occurred. Based on this assessment, if it is determined more likely than not that the fair value of a goodwill reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform the quantitative analysis of the goodwill impairment test. 

The liability for standard warranties is included in accrued and other current and other non-current liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The specific warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country in which we do business, but generally include technical support, parts, and labor over a period ranging from one to three years. Warranty claims are reasonably predictable based on historical experience of failure rates. If actual results differ from our estimates, we revise our estimated warranty liability to reflect such changes. 

Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. We calculate a provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized by identifying the temporary differences arising from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. In the event we determine that all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, we will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. 

The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions. 

We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. Third parties have in the past asserted, and may in the future assert, claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. 

Inventories — We state our inventory at the lower of cost or market. We perform a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors, including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. 

See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements that are applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

ITEM 7A — QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 