Our mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. 

We also help people discover and learn about what is going on in the world around them, enable people to share their opinions, ideas, photos and videos, and other activities with audiences ranging from their closest friends to the public at large, and stay connected everywhere by accessing our products, including: 

There are a number of different ways to engage with people on Facebook, the most important of which is News Feed which displays an algorithmically-ranked series of stories and advertisements individualized for each person. 

Instagram is also a place for people to stay connected with the interests and communities that they care about. 

Messenger is a messaging application that makes it easy for people to connect with other people, groups and businesses across a variety of platforms and devices. 

WhatsApp is a fast, simple, and reliable messaging application that is used by people around the world to connect securely and privately. 

Our Oculus virtual reality technology and content platform power products that allow people to enter a completely immersive and interactive environment to train, learn, play games, consume content, and connect with others. 

Marketers purchase ads that can appear in multiple places including on Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party applications and websites. 

We are also investing in a number of longer-term initiatives, such as connectivity efforts, artificial intelligence research, and augmented and virtual reality, to develop technologies that we believe will help us better serve our communities and pursue our mission to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. 

Our business is characterized by innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. We compete with companies that sell advertising, as well as with companies that provide social, media, and communication products and services that are designed to engage users on mobile devices and online. 

We also compete with the following: 

For example, Google has integrated social functionality into a number of its products, including search, video, and Android. 

•Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social or other communications functionality, such as messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging. 

•Companies that provide regional social networks that have strong positions in particular countries. 

•Traditional, online, and mobile businesses that provide media for marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. 

•Companies that develop and deliver virtual reality products and services. 

As we introduce or acquire new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition. 

As our user base grows, and the level of engagement from the people who use our products continues to increase, including with video, our computing needs continue to expand. We are also investing in protecting the security and integrity of our platform by investing in both people and technology to strengthen our systems against abuse. 

Our technology investments included research and development expenses of $7.75 billion, $5.92 billion and $4.82 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

We also have a global sales force that is focused on attracting and retaining advertisers and providing support to them throughout the stages of the marketing cycle from pre-purchase decision-making to real-time optimizations to post-campaign analytics. We work directly with these advertisers, through traditional advertising agencies, and with an ecosystem of specialized agencies and partners. 

In addition, we have invested and will continue to invest in marketing our products and services to build our brand, grow our user base, and increase engagement around the world. 

In addition, to further protect our proprietary rights, from time to time we have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. 

We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. These may involve user privacy, data protection and personal information, rights of publicity, content, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, telecommunications, product liability, taxation, economic or other trade prohibitions or sanctions, securities law compliance, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, content, competition, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. 

In addition, the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will take effect in May 2018 and will apply to all of our products and services that provide service in Europe. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union, and will include significant penalties for non- 

Similarly, there are a number of legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business, such as liability for copyright infringement by third parties. 

We are currently, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory orders or consent decrees. 

Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers or issuers of stored value or prepaid access products. Various laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, such as the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had 25,105 employees. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2004. 

Facebook, the Facebook logo, FB, the Like button, Instagram, Oculus, WhatsApp, and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Facebook, Inc. or its affiliates. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Notes 1 and 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.fb.com when such reports are available on the SEC's website. 

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 