Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. For a discussion of limitations in the measurement of certain of our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Certain revenue information in the section entitled "—Revenue—Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue" is presented on a constant currency basis. This information is a non-GAAP financial measure. This measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting its usefulness for comparison purposes. 

Executive Overview of Full Year 2017 Results 

Our key user metrics and financial results for 2017 are as follows: 

•Total costs and expenses were $20.45 billion. 

•Income from operations was $20.20 billion. 

In 2017, we continued to focus on our three main revenue growth priorities: (i) helping businesses expand their use of our mobile products, (ii) developing innovative ad products that help businesses get the most of their ad campaigns, and (iii) making our ads more relevant and effective through our targeting capabilities and outcome-based measurement. 

We continued to invest, based on our roadmap, in: (i) our most developed ecosystem, the Facebook app and platform as well as video, (ii) driving growth and building ecosystems around our products and features that already have significant user bases, such as Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp, and (iii) long-term technology initiatives, such as connectivity, artificial intelligence, and augmented and virtual reality, that we believe will further our mission to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. 

The numbers for our key metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), do not include Instagram, WhatsApp, or Oculus users unless they would otherwise qualify as such users, respectively, based on their other activities on Facebook. 

Substantially all of our daily and monthly active users (as defined below) access Facebook on mobile devices. 

We view DAUs, and DAUs as a percentage of MAUs, as measures of user engagement. 

Note: For purposes of reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU by geographic region, Europe includes all users in Russia and Turkey and Rest of World includes all users in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. 

Users in India, Indonesia, and Brazil represented key sources of growth in DAUs during December 2017, relative to the same period in 2016. 

MAUs are a measure of the size of our global active user community. 

Users in India, Indonesia, and Vietnam represented key sources of growth in 2017, relative to the same period in 2016. 

Trends in Our Monetization by User Geography 

We calculate our revenue by user geography based on our estimate of the geography in which ad impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased, or virtual reality platform devices are shipped. While ARPU includes all sources of revenue, the number of MAUs used in this calculation only includes users of Facebook and Messenger as described in the definition of MAU above. The geography of our users affects our revenue and financial results because we currently monetize users in different geographies at different average rates. 

Note: Our revenue by user geography in the charts above is geographically apportioned based on our estimation of the geographic location of our users when they perform a revenue-generating activity. 

For 2017, worldwide ARPU was $20.21, an increase of 26% from 2016. We expect that user growth in the future will be primarily concentrated in those regions where ARPU is relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue to increase at a slower rate relative to ARPU in any geographic region, or potentially decrease even if ARPU increases in each geographic region. 

The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. 

We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with income taxes, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. 

We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), we can provide no assurance that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be materially different. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made, and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. 

Since the Tax Act was passed late in the fourth quarter of 2017, and ongoing guidance and accounting interpretation are expected over the next 12 months, we consider the accounting of the transition tax, deferred tax re-measurements, and other items to be incomplete due to the forthcoming guidance and our ongoing analysis of final year-end data and tax positions. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. We expect to complete our analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118. 

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. We record a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. 

We review the developments in our contingencies that could affect the amount of the provisions that have been previously recorded, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed. 

Therefore, if one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's expectations, our results of operations and financial condition, including in a particular reporting period in which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could be materially adversely affected. 

Business Combinations and Valuation of Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets 

The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. 

As of December 31, 2017, no impairment of goodwill has been identified. 

We evaluate the recoverability of our intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We have not recorded any significant impairment charges during the years presented. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. 

If we reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would be amortized over the revised estimated useful life. 

We recognize revenue from the display of impression-based ads in the contracted period in which the impressions are delivered. Marketers pay for ad products either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions, such as clicks, taken by users. Impressions are considered delivered when an ad is displayed to a user. For advertising revenue arrangements where we are not the primary obligor, we recognize revenue on a net basis. 

Our other fees revenue, which has not been significant in recent periods, consists primarily of revenue from the delivery of virtual reality platform devices, and various other sources. 

Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses 

Cost of revenue also includes costs associated with partner arrangements, including content acquisition costs, credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions, cost of virtual reality platform device inventory sold, and amortization of intangible assets. 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation, salaries, and benefits for employees on our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products as well as improving existing products. 

Our marketing and sales expenses also include marketing and promotional expenditures, professional services such as content reviewers, as well as amortization of intangible assets. 

In addition, general and administrative expenses include legal-related costs and professional services. 

The following tables set forth our consolidated statements of income data: 

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: 

The following tables set forth our consolidated statements of income data (as a percentage of revenue): 

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses (as a percentage of revenue): 

The increase was mostly due to an increase in advertising revenue, partially offset by the continuing decline in Payments revenue. 

Factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth in 2017 included (i) an increase in average price per ad, (ii) an increase in users and their engagement, and (iii) an increase in the number and frequency of ads displayed on mobile devices. We anticipate that advertising revenue growth will continue to be driven primarily by price rather than increases in the number and frequency of ads displayed. 

The increase in average price per ad was driven by an increase in demand for our ad inventory; factors contributing to this include an increase in spend from existing marketers and an increase in the number of marketers actively advertising on our platform as well as the quality, relevance, and performance of those ads. 

We believe that this seasonality in advertising spending affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth in advertising revenue between the third and fourth quarters and a decline in advertising spending between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. 

The decline in Payments and other fees revenue was primarily due to decreased Payments revenue from games played on personal computers, partially offset by the revenue from the delivery of virtual reality platform devices. 

Revenue in 2016 increased $9.71 billion, or 54%, compared to 2015. 

For 2016, we estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 83% of total advertising revenue, as compared with approximately 77% in 2015. 

relevance, and performance of those ads. 

In 2016 compared to 2015, the average price per ad increased by 5% and the number of ads delivered increased by 50%. 

The majority of the decrease in Payments and other fees revenue was due to decreased Payments revenue from games played on personal computers. 

No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. 

If we had translated revenue for the full year 2017 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $40.36 billion and $39.65 billion, respectively. 

If we had translated revenue for the full year 2016 using 2015 monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $27.91 billion and $27.15 billion, respectively. 

The majority of the increase was due to an increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, higher costs associated with partnership agreements, including content acquisition costs, and ads payment processing. 

The majority of the increase was due to an increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements. 

 In 2018, we anticipate that the cost of revenue will increase as we continue to expand our data center capacity and technical infrastructure to support user growth, increased user engagement, and the delivery of new products and services and, to a lesser extent, due to higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements. 

Research and development expenses in 2017 increased $1.84 billion, or 31%, compared to 2016. 

Research and development expenses in 2016 increased $1.10 billion, or 23%, compared to 2015. 

In 2018, we plan to continue to hire software engineers and other technical employees, and to increase our investment to support our research and development initiatives. 

Additionally, our marketing expenses increased $196 million in 2017, compared to 2016. 

Additionally, our marketing expenses increased $344 million in 2016, compared to 2015. 

In 2018, we plan to continue the hiring of marketing and sales employees to support our marketing, sales, and partnership efforts and to increase our investment in security efforts through the hiring of employees and content reviewers. 

General and administrative expenses in 2017 increased $786 million, or 45%, compared to 2016. 

General and administrative expenses in 2016 increased $436 million, or 34%, compared to 2015. 

In 2018, we plan to continue to increase general and administrative expenses to support overall company growth. 

Interest and other income (expense), net 

In addition, foreign exchange impact resulting from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency assets and liabilities also contributed to the increase in 2017. 

Interest and other income (expense), net in 2016 increased $122 million compared to 2015. 

Our provision for income taxes in 2017 increased $2.36 billion, or 103%, compared to 2016, mostly due to the effects of the Tax Act that was enacted on December 22, 2017 and an increase in income before provision for income taxes, partially offset by an increase in excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation. 

Our effective tax rate in 2017 increased compared to 2016, mostly due to the Tax Act and a decrease in the tax rate benefit from share-based compensation compared to 2016. For comparison, in 2016, excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes by $934 million and our effective tax rate by seven percentage points, as compared to the tax rate without such benefits. 

Our provision for income taxes in 2016 decreased $205 million, or 8%, compared to 2015, primarily due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation in our provision for income taxes resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09, partially offset by an increase in income before provision for income taxes. 

Our effective tax rate in the future will depend upon the proportion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in the United States and in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate, as well as a number of other factors, including excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, changes to our provisional accounting for the effects of the Tax Act during the measurement period, tax effects of integrating intellectual property from acquisitions, settlement of tax contingency items, tax effects of changes in our business, and the impact of new legislation. 

The portion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate will depend upon the proportion of revenue and costs associated with the respective jurisdictions. 

Consequently, our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate may initially increase in the period of an acquisition and integration. 

The accounting for share-based compensation will increase or decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the deductions taken on our tax return which depends upon the stock price at the time of employee award vesting. 

Our 2017 effective tax rate was significantly affected by the Tax Act. In addition, since we recognize excess tax benefits on a discrete basis, we anticipate that our effective tax rate will vary from quarter to quarter depending on our stock price in each period. 

These unrecognized tax benefits were predominantly accrued for uncertainties related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing of intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, as well as for uncertainties with our research tax credits. Based upon the status of litigation described below and the current status of tax audits in various jurisdictions, we do not anticipate a significant impact to such amounts within the next 12 months. 

As of December 31, 2017, we have not resolved this matter and proceedings continue in the United States Tax Court. While the Notice applies only to the 2010 tax year, the IRS states that it will also apply its position for tax years subsequent to 2010, which, if the IRS prevails in its position, could result in an additional federal tax liability of an estimated aggregate amount of approximately $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion in excess of the amounts in our originally filed U.S. return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. We do not agree with the position of the IRS and have filed a petition in the United States Tax Court challenging the Notice. 

Absent unanticipated events, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits will have a significant impact on our effective tax rate in 2018. 

In the opinion of management, the financial information reflects all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which we consider necessary for a fair presentation of this data. This information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: 

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: 

Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist primarily of cash on deposit with banks, investments in money market funds, and investments in U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and corporate debt securities. 

Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $2.12 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

As of December 31, 2017, no amounts had been drawn down and we were in compliance with the covenants under this credit facility. 

In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a $6.0 billion share repurchase program of our Class A common stock that commenced in 2017 and does not have an expiration date. 

In 2017, we paid $3.25 billion of taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards. 

As a result, earnings in foreign jurisdictions are available for distribution to the U.S. without incremental U.S. taxes. 

We currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facility, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. 

The increase in cash flow from operating activities during 2017 compared to 2016, was mostly due to an increase in net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation expense. 

The increase in cash flow from operating activities during 2016 compared to 2015, was mostly due to an increase in net income, including the impact of ASU 2016-09 adoption, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, and share-based compensation expense. 

Cash flow from operating activities during 2015 mostly consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as share-based compensation expense of $2.96 billion, total depreciation and amortization of $1.95 billion, and tax benefit from share-based award activity of $1.72 billion, which had been reclassified from financing activity as a result of ASU 2016-09 adoption. 

Cash used in investing activities during 2017 mostly resulted from $13.25 billion for net purchases of marketable securities and $6.73 billion for capital expenditures as we continued to invest in servers, data centers, office buildings, and network infrastructure. 

The increase in cash used in investing activities during 2016 compared to 2015 was mostly due to increases in capital expenditures and net purchases of marketable securities. 

Cash used in investing activities during 2015 primarily resulted from $6.70 billion for net purchases of marketable securities and $2.52 billion for capital expenditures as we continued to invest in servers, data centers, network infrastructure, and office buildings. 

We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2018 of approximately $14.0 billion to $15.0 billion. 

Cash used in financing activities during 2017 mostly consisted of $3.25 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and $1.98 billion paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock. 

Cash used in financing activities during 2016 mostly consisted of principal payments on capital lease and other financing obligations. 

The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower principal payments related to our capital lease transactions. 

We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2017. 

The following table summarizes our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): 

(2) Other contractual commitments primarily relate to network infrastructure and our data center operations. 

The ultimate spend under these agreements may vary and will be based on prevailing market prices or actual volume purchased. Using projected market prices or expected volume consumption, the total estimated spend is approximately $4.0 billion. 

In addition, our other liabilities include $2.75 billion related to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2017. 

We record a provision for a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations. Such matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. 

See Note 9 — Commitments and Contingencies and Note 12 — Income Taxes of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these contingencies. 

In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date, which delays the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. The FASB also agreed to allow entities to choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date. The guidance includes indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service before it is transferred to the customers. We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method. 

In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 

We will recognize right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption, which will increase our total assets and liabilities. While we continue to evaluate the effect of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, we expect our operating leases, as disclosed in Note 9 — Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, will be subject to the new standard. 

Based on transactions up to December 31, 2017, we do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. A cumulative-effect adjustment will capture the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from past intra-entity transfers involving assets other than inventory, new deferred tax assets, and other liabilities for amounts not currently recognized under U.S. GAAP. 

We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2018, using the retrospective transition approach for all periods presented. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2018, on a prospective basis and do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04), which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 