ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to impact our future results: 

•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves. 

The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, resulting in increasing revenues, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business. 

•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may impact our monetization. 

Additionally, we continue to see a shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. Programmatic buying has a different monetization profile than traditional advertising buying on Google properties. 

•Users are increasingly using multiple devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile and other new formats. 

Our users are accessing the Internet via multiple devices and modalities and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. 

We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. 

•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates impact such revenues. 

The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. 

Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. 

•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may impact margins. 

Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. 

•As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R&D and our capital expenditures will continue to fluctuate. 

We continue to make significant research and development (R&D) investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. 

These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. 

•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them. 

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. 

•Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $39.1 billion. 

•Income from operations was $26.1 billion. 

•Operating cash flow was $37.1 billion. 

We operate our business in multiple operating segments. 

Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. 

Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R&D services through Verily. 

Please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

The following table presents our revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions): 

The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions), and changes in our aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

When assessing our advertising revenues performance, we present information regarding the percentage change in the number of paid clicks and cost-per-click for our Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. 

Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play, and viewed YouTube engagement ads. 

Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users. 

We periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity. 

In the first quarter of 2017, we refined our methodology for paid clicks and cost-per-click to include additional categories of TrueView engagement ads and exclude non-engagement based trial ad formats. 

Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including: 

•changes in advertising quality or formats; 

•changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 

•fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs; 

•growth rates of revenues from Google properties, including YouTube, compared to growth rates of revenues from Google Network Members' properties; 

•shift in the proportion of non-click based revenues generated on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties, including an increase in programmatic and reservation based advertising buying; and 

•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels. 

Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels, changes in our product mix, increasing competition, query growth rates, our investments in new business strategies, shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues, and the evolution of the online advertising market. 

The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues that are generated on: 

•Google search properties which includes revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc. 

•Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube. 

We also experienced growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising, as well as growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery. Our Google properties revenues increased $14,003 million from 2016 to 2017. 

The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2016 to 2017 due to growth in YouTube engagement ads, increases in mobile search queries, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base. The positive impact on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2016 to 2017. 

The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search most notably due to ongoing improvements in ad formats and delivery launched during 2016. We also experienced growth in YouTube revenue driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView with a growing contribution from ad buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager, as well as improvements in ad formats and delivery. 

The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2015 to 2016 due to growth in the adoption of YouTube engagement ads, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. 

The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions) and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Member properties through: 

•AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc. 

The growth was primarily driven by strength in both programmatic advertising buying and AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 

The increase in paid clicks from 2016 to 2017 resulted primarily from growth in AdMob and an increase from our traditional AdSense for Search business. 

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $565 million from 2015 to 2016. 

The increase in paid clicks from 2015 to 2016 resulted from the growth in AdMob offset by declines in AdSense. 

The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions): 

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from: 

•Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store; 

Our Google other revenues increased $4,197 million from 2016 to 2017. 

Our Google other revenues increased $2,926 million from 2015 to 2016 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. 

The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions): 

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from: 

The increase was primarily driven by revenues from sales of Nest branded hardware, Fiber internet and TV services, and Verily licensing and R&D services. 

There was also an increase in revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services from 2015 to 2016. 

Due to the early stage of our Other Bets businesses and because their revenues aggregate a number of businesses operating in different industries, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate in future periods. 

The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers: 

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth 

Our international revenues are also favorably impacted by net hedging gains and unfavorably impacted by net hedging losses. 

We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results. 

Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging impacts realized in the current period. 

Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging impacts are excluded from revenues of both periods. 

These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. 

The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions): 

The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro and Russian ruble, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Turkish lira. 

The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound, Euro, and Russian ruble. 

Our revenues from APAC from 2016 to 2017 were relatively flat, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from hedging benefits, offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. 

was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Australian dollar, Indian rupee, South Korean won, and Taiwanese dollar. 

The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Indian rupee and Australian dollar. 

Our revenues from Other Americas from 2016 to 2017 were favorably impacted, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by an unfavorable impact from hedging losses. 

Our revenues from Other Americas from 2015 to 2016 were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by a favorable impact from hedging benefits. 

Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. 

The cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the costs of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members. 

Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following: 

•Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee); 

•Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions; 

•Expenses associated with our data center and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and 

•Inventory related costs for hardware we sell. 

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions): 

(1) Revenues include hedging gains(losses) which impact TAC rates. 

Cost of revenues increased $10,445 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase in TAC to Google Network Members was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. 

The increase in the aggregate TAC rate was also partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties. 

Other cost of revenues increased $5,566 million from 2016 to 2017. 

Cost of revenues increased $6,974 million from 2015 to 2016 due to various factors including traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, content acquisition costs, and hardware costs. 

Our aggregate TAC rate was also impacted by the increase in mobile and programmatic advertising buying, which generally carry overall higher TAC. The increase in Network Members' TAC rate was primarily driven by the shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying. 

We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in future periods based on a number of factors, including the following: 

•Google Network Members TAC rates, which are affected by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC; 

•Google properties TAC rates, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; 

•Growth rates of expenses associated with our data center and other operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs; 

•Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, whose costs are generally higher in relation to our advertising revenues; 

•Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties. 

The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions): 

•Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services; and 

In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $569 million. 

The increase was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $667 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $326 million, both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R&D headcount, partially offset by higher expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets in 2015. 

We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 

The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions): 

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: 

•Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and 

•Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions. 

The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,266 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products, Cloud offerings, and YouTube. 

The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $679 million, largely due to increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products. 

We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 

The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions): 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: 

•Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations; 

•Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services. 

The decrease was primarily from reduced allocations to general and administrative expenses with an offsetting increase to costs of revenues and other operating expenses. Additionally, there was an increase in professional service fees of $253 million due to additional expenses incurred for outsourced services and consulting services. 

These increases were offset by a decrease in professional service fees of $194 million due to lower legal-related costs. 

We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 

In June 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. 

The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions): 

Other income (expense), net, increased $613 million from 2016 to 2017. 

Other income (expense), net, increased $143 million from 2015 to 2016. 

The hedging costs expensed in other income (expense), net, decreased as a result of less option premiums paid after we began to use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our forecasted revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

We expect that other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in dollar amount in future periods as it is largely driven by market dynamics. 

The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate: 

Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2015 to 2016, largely due to proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and discrete items in 2015 and 2016, partially offset by the stock-based compensation benefits recognized resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 

Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. 

Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 

Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 

These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had $101.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with $62.8 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries. 

As permitted by the Tax Act, we intend to pay the one-time transition tax in eight annual interest-free installments beginning in 2018. 

We have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in February 2021. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. As of December 31, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. 

As of December 31, 2017, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $3.9 billion and a total estimated fair value of $4.0 billion. 

In January 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $8.6 billion of Alphabet Class C capital stock. The repurchases are expected to be executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. 

In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a non-controlling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. 

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions): 

Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. 

Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers), offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues, operating expenses, and income taxes. 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses. 

Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities in our investment portfolio, cash collateral received or returned from our securities lending program, payments for acquisitions, and the proceeds from the collection of notes receivable. 

Net cash used in investing activities increased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities and increases in purchases of property and equipment, offset by increases in the maturities and sales of marketable securities, decreases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending, and increase in proceeds received from collections of notes receivables. 

Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities, increases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending and increases in spend related to acquisitions, partially offset by increases in maturities and sales of marketable securities and decreases in purchases of non-marketable investments. 

Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities. 

Net cash used in financing activities decreased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily driven by decreases in the net cash outflow from repayments and issuance of debt, offset by increases in the repurchases of capital stock. 

Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily driven by decreases in proceeds from issuance of debt, and increases in the repurchases of capital stock and net payments related to stock-based award activities, partially offset by a decrease in debt repayments. 

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2017 

The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): 

(1) For further information, refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

(2) Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and build-outs; digital media content licensing arrangements; and purchases of inventory. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. 

(3) Represents our principal and interest payments. 

(5) Represents cash obligations recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, and consist primarily of facility build-outs and payments owed in connection with certain commercial agreements. 

As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 

In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. 

Please see Note 1 of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the summary of significant accounting policies. 

In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price. 

Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions, determining our provision for income taxes, and evaluating the impact of the Tax Act. 

The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. 

As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018. 

To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. 

We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 

We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, non-income taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. 

We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies. 

The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. 

of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. 

Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows (primarily from customer relationships and acquired patents and developed technology) and discount rates. 

Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. 

Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. 

We periodically review our securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. 

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 