ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 

Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. 

When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. For forwards and all other option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value 

from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. 

We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term. 

These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. 

We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $40 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. 

We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. 

The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 are shown below (in millions): 

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. 

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 