As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." 

Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. 

At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns. 

Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. 

This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. 

Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, and can also improve the ability of clinicians to detect diseases such as diabetic retinopathy. 

Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. 

Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded nearly two decades ago. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos. 

This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. 

That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. 

Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google’s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently. 

The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. 

Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. 

In addition, Google Network Members use our AdSense program to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. 

•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. 

We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. 

We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. 

Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas, such as digital content, enterprise cloud services, and hardware. 

Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. 

While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. For instance, Nest recently expanded its connected home product line by introducing the Nest Thermostat E and a new home security solution that includes the Nest Hello video doorbell, Nest Cam IQ outdoor security camera, and the Nest Secure alarm system. 

We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. 

Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. 

•General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex. 

•Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). 

Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. 

•Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. 

•Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising platform. 

•Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix. 

•Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. 

•Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. 

•Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft. 

Competing successfully in our advertising-related businesses depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain: 

•Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services. 

•Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. 

•Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. 

We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. 

Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels. 

We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. 

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. 

Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. 

While we are still performing final analysis for the year, in 2017, we purchased a total wind and solar capacity of about three gigawatts, which we expect will be enough renewables to match the energy consumption of our global operations. 

We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. For more information, please refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

For information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we converted Google Inc. into a limited liability company in September 2017. 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. 

Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. 

governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." 