Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. 

Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries 

If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 

Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use. 

Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. They can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in hiring talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, and content providers. 

If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. 

We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our advertising business. 

We generated over 86% of total revenues from advertising in 2017. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, we could see a decrease in revenue and other adverse impacts to our business. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. 

Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations. 

The creation of Alphabet as a holding company in 2015 and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 

If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices and modalities, our business could be adversely affected. 

The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-assisted speakers, automobiles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices and modalities may make the use of our products and services or the generation of advertising revenue through such devices more difficult (or just different), and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compatible or compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. 

Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 

Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including: 

•changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix, 

•the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, 

•the evolution of the online advertising market, including the increasing variety of online platforms for advertising, and the other markets in which we participate, and 

•the rate of user adoption of our products, services, and technologies. 

We believe our margins could experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business as well as the continuing shift to mobile, changes in device mix, and the contribution of new businesses to overall revenue. For instance, the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on Google properties. 

We also expect our TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. 

Furthermore, our margins could be impacted adversely if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or if we invest more heavily in our innovation efforts across the Company (such as our Other Bets businesses) than we have historically. 

Additionally, changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics may adversely affect our business. 

Such reviews may also result in substantial regulatory fines, changes to our business practices and other penalties, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We continue to cooperate with the European Commission and other regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business. 

Additionally, changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may disrupt our business practices. 

A variety of new and existing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. 

The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. For example, current and new patent laws such as U.S. patent laws and European patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. 

Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. 

Other laws that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business include, among others: 

Any legislation or court rulings impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us. 

•The General Data Protection Regulation, coming into effect in the European Union in May of 2018, which creates a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will increase financial penalties for noncompliance significantly. 

•Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens. 

For instance, with respect to the ‘right to be forgotten,’ a follow-up case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which could result in an order to apply delisting actions under the ‘right to be forgotten’ worldwide. 

•Various U.S. and international laws that restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. 

•Various laws with regards to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the recently enacted Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may impact our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. 

•Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries that require notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data. 

•Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. 

•Privacy laws, which could be interpreted over-broadly to limit some product offerings and increase costs. 

We face risks and costs overseas as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. 

We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. 

We may also be subject to claims, including product warranty claims, if users experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. 

Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 

Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. 

We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. 

Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. 

being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. 

Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. 

Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and customers’ proprietary information, and theft and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and potential liability. 

We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers. 

Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. 

In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 

For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), coming into application in the European Union (EU) on May 25, 2018, will apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users. 

However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. 

We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 

As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies. 

Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. 

Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. 

Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. 

Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. 

Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. 

We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. 

Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 

Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. 

Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. 

expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. 

•Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions. 

•Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology. 

•Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company. 

•Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions. 

•Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms. 

•Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction. 

•In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. 

•Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire. 

•Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. 

•Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. 

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 

In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results. 

Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, content providers, and other partners. 

Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be misleading. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. 

Furthermore, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in the Google brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 

We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects. 

We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. 

We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts, and third party distributors, including cellular network carriers. 

We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively impact our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption. 

Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. 

Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. 

If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. 

SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. 

Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 

Web spam refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engine's quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. 

Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. If our search results display an increasing number of web spam and content farms, this could hurt our reputation for delivering 

relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. 

Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. 

Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. 

Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 

Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. 

In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following: 

•Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S. 

•Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs. 

•Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud. 

•Evolving foreign laws and legal systems. 

•Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent. 

•Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions. 

Additionally, changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may adversely harm our business, and compliance with complex international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. 

Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 

Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 

Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results: 

•Our ability to continue to attract and retain users to our products and services. 

•Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices. 

•Revenue fluctuations caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix. 

•The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program. 

•The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure. 

•Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results. 

•The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies. 

•Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions. 

•Our ability to attract user adoption of and generate significant revenues from new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources. 

As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate. 

Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. 

If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 

They also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. 

We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. 

In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. 

In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. 

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. 

Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. 

New and existing technologies could block ads online, which would harm our business. 

Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. 

We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments. 

As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 

We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 

Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 

Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 

Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. 

The ongoing effects of the Tax Act and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. 

Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. 

Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. 

Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock 

The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. 

The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. 

In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: 

•Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. 

•Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments. 

•Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates. 

•Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings. 

•Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations. 

•Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy. 

•The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale. 

•Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees). 

•Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock. 

•The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another. 

These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance. 

We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. 

In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional$8,589,869,056 of our Class C capital stock. The share repurchase program, authorized by our board of directors, does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. 

The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 

As of December 31, 2017, Larry, Sergey, and Eric E. Schmidt beneficially owned approximately 92.7% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.7% of 

the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergey’s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. 

This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. 

Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 

Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. 

•Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric. 

•Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. 

•Our stockholders may not act by written consent. 

This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. 

•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. 

The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. 

Risks Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization 

As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries. 

As a result, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet. 

We may not obtain the anticipated benefits of our reorganization into a holding company structure. 

The benefits of this reorganization may not be obtained if circumstances prevent us from taking 

advantage of the strategic and business opportunities that we expect it may afford us. 

Additionally, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet, as the new holding company. 