Our members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any internet-connected screen. Additionally, in the United States ("U.S."), our members can receive DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. 

As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of, and interest in, the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the internet. 

We are continuously improving our members' experience by expanding our streaming content with a focus on a programming mix of content that delights our members. Our members can download a selection of titles for offline viewing. 

Our original programming increasingly includes content that we produce. We began our international expansion with Canada in 2010 and have since launched our service globally, with the exception of The People's Republic of China and territories where U.S. companies are not allowed to operate. 

The Domestic streaming segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members in the United States. For additional information regarding our segments, including information about our financial results by geography, see Note 11 Segment Information in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We also compete against entertainment video providers and content producers in obtaining content for our service, both for licensed streaming content and for original content projects. 

While consumers may maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple entertainment sources, we strive for consumers to choose us in their moments of free time. 

Our membership growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations when consumers buy internet-connected screens and when they tend to increase their viewing. Increasingly, our membership growth is impacted by the release of certain high-profile original content. 

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to certain risks and from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 5,500 total employees. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032, and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700. 

The contents of our Web site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations Web site. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues. 