In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 

If our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. 

We have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. Our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing TV shows and movies. Competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as MVPDs, internet-based movie and TV content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and DVD retailers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. In addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. We must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. 

Changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. 

The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. All of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. Through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. Piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. New entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. 

The long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. 

We also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these production such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. Such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the Contractual Obligations section of Part II, 

Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 5, Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content. Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. 

We face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. 

We are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including TV series and movies. We also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. To the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. We believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. Negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. 

We may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. 

If studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. 

The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. Certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. 

In this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations (“CMOs”) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. 

mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. 

If we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. 

As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party “cloud” computing services. We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S. As our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. 

We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. 

In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: 

•the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; 

•difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; 

•political or social unrest and economic instability; 

•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; 

•difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; 

•regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; 

•less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; 

•adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; 

•fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; 

•profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; 

•differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; 

•new and different sources of competition; 

•censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; 

•low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; 

•different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements; 

•availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; 

•integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and 

•differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. 

Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. 

We are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. 

Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. 

Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. 

If we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. 

We believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. To the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. 

Changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. 

If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. 

Companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. For example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels. 

To the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. 

We rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. 

We have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. We intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. 

Our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. 

Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. 

These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. 

These systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data or intellectual property. Our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks, both from state-sponsored and individual activity, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. 

We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider. Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, “cloud” computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. 

We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. 

Amazon Web Services (“AWS”) provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. 

If the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. 

We utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. For example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network (“CDN”). If our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of “bugs” in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. Any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

If government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. 

As our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. 

Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. In others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. 

Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. 

We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. Furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. 

While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. 

Privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. 

We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. 

Our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. 

This data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. Despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as AWS, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. We maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. Should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. 

We are subject to payment processing risk. 

We rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. In addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. 

If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. 

We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. 

We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. 

Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. 

Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our our Web site. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. We may also have to remove content from our service. 

We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. 

As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. 

We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. 

Our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last three years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service. 

The decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. Any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price. 

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. 

Moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. In addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we had $6.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding (“Notes”). For more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see Note 5, Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: 

•make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our Notes and our other obligations; 

•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; 

•limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; 

•require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; 

•limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; 

•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and 

•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. 

As a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. 

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. 

Our ability to make payments on our debt, including our Notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. 

Our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 

If our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. 

alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. 

We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. 

In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. 

If our Domestic DVD segment declines faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. 

The number of memberships to our DVD-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund growth or our streaming service. To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. 

Postal Service were to increase postal delivery rates or implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. 

Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership 

Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 

Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: 

•authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; 

•provide for a classified board of directors; 

•prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; 

•establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and 

•prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. 

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. 

In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Amended and Restated Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. 

The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. 

•variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; 

•variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; 

•announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; 

•competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; 

•the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and 

•the operating results of our competitors. 

As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. 

We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. 

Preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results. 

Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. We base such estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates. 