Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analyst Reports 

Certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKE’s business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the SEC, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. 

Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 

Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKE’s policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. 

We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. Our NIKE Direct operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers selling our products. 

In addition, the competitive nature of retail including shifts in the ways in which consumers are shopping, and the rising trend of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our NIKE Direct and wholesale operations. If we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. 

Failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. 

In addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives. 

Our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our corporate integrity and brand culture. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could also damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. 

If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. 

Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

We rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. 

Technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. We rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. 

Failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. 

However, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. If we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. 

In addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. 

General economic factors beyond our control, and changes in the global economic environment, including fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates, could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. 

A majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States, and we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to the volatility of global economic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates. Dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. Dollar or other trading currency. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. 

Global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

The uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. 

•Slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. 

•In the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. 

Continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies, including in response to certain policies advocated or implemented by the U.S. presidential administration, could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. 

•Continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. 

•If retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. 

•If retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. 

•If contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. 

Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. 

Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. 

We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. 

We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. When the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. 

Failure to accurately forecast consumer demand could lead to excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. 

There is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. 

Consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. 

These retailers have in the past increased their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. These situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or consumer behavior shifts away from traditional retail, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. 

Our NIKE Direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. 

Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our NIKE Direct operations, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. 

Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, pose risks and uncertainties. 

If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. 

We are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. Increasingly, customers are using mobile-based devices and applications to shop online with us and with our competitors, and to do comparison shopping. 

Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. 

Failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. 

We periodically discover counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. 

We also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. 

We may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. 

We take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. For example, confidential information related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. 

We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. 

We are subject to the risk our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. 

If our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. 

We also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. 

We are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. 

Any breach of our or our service providers’ network, or other vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers’, users’ or employees’ personal information or a disruption of our business. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. 

For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), which became effective on May 25, 2018. Compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws (including implementation of the privacy and process enhancements called for under GDPR) and regulations can be costly; any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. 

Failure of our contractors or our licensees’ contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. 

We work with hundreds of contractors outside of the United States to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. We also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. Negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our brand image and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licenses. 

Our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. 

This includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of Brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union, as well as new and proposed changes affecting tax laws and trade policy in the U.S. and elsewhere as further described below under “We could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate” and “Changes to U.S. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” The U.S. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage U.S. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S., which may require us to change the way we conduct business and adversely affect our results of operations. The administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain U.S. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. 

If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. These factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. 

We could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate. 

The Tax Act also transitions U.S. international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which includes a number of significant changes to previous U.S. tax laws that impact us, including provisions for a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings, and a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, among other changes. 

As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts we have recorded, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes or challenges to or the repeal of the Tax Act cannot be predicted with certainty and could have a material impact on our future tax expense. 

There have been proposals to reform foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. 

If the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our effective income tax rate would increase in the future. 

We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, particularly in light of the enactment of the Tax Act. 

Changes to U.S. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The U.S. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. 

As a result of recent policy changes of the U.S. presidential administration and recent U.S. government proposals, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. The Company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the U.S. and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). 

If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. 

As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 

We rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. 

NIKE is supplied by 124 footwear factories located in 13 countries. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. If one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, including due to changes in applicable trade policies, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. 

Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. 

The principal materials used in our footwear products — natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films — are also locally available to manufacturers. NIKE contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. 

In addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. There could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. If we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. 

Because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. 

During fiscal 2018, Sojitz America provided financing and purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in certain NIKE markets including Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, South Africa and Uruguay (collectively the “Sojitz Markets”), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America’s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the Sojitz Markets. 

Our success depends on our global distribution facilities. 

Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. 

We rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. 

Information Technology Systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. We are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet and third-party services (“Information Technology Systems”), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. For example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these Information Technology Systems. 

We also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. If Information Technology Systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. 

The market for prime real estate is competitive. 

We also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. 

Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 

Extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 

Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 

Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. 

We believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability; however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. 

We are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The global nature of our business means legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. Any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. 

The success of our business depends, in part, on high-quality employees, including key personnel. 

Our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 

The sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. 

If, on June 30, 2018, all of these shares were converted into Class B Common Stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our Class B Common Stock would be approximately 17%. The sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Swoosh, LLC is controlled by Mr. Knight's son and NIKE director, Travis Knight. 

Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. 

Our long-term debt is currently rated Investment Grade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. If our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. 

If our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. 

Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. 

If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. 

Anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the Company or reduce the price of our common stock. 

There are provisions within our articles of incorporation and Oregon law intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of Class A Common Stock elect three-quarters of the Board of Directors rounded down to the next whole number. 

We may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. 

These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts’ estimates of our future performance. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. Any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources needed to successfully run our business. 