Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. Our goal is to deliver value to our shareholders by building a profitable global portfolio of branded footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories businesses. 

Leveraging the power of digital, NIKE plans to drive growth — by accelerating innovation and product creation, moving even closer to the consumer through key cities, and deepening one-to-one connections. 

Through the Consumer Direct Offense, we are focusing on our Triple Double strategy, with the objective of doubling the impact of innovation, increasing our speed to market and growing our direct connections with consumers. 

•Gross margin expansion of as much as 50 basis points; 

•Slight selling and administrative expense leverage; 

•Mid-teens earnings per share growth; and 

•Low-thirties percentage rate of return on invested capital. 

Over the past ten years, we have achieved strong growth in many of these metrics. 

We achieved record revenues for fiscal 2018, growing 6% to $36.4 billion. The NIKE Brand, which represents over 90% of NIKE, Inc. On a currency-neutral basis, NIKE Brand revenues grew 5%, driven by strong revenue growth across all international geographies and NIKE Direct, as well as growth in footwear, apparel and most key categories. 

Income before income taxes decreased 11% for fiscal 2018, in part reflecting the negative impact of weakening foreign currency exchange rates. Selling and administrative expense was higher as a percent of revenues, reflecting investments in digital capabilities, consumer experiences and product and brand marketing to drive long-term growth under the Consumer Direct Offense. 

Diluted earnings per common share reflects a 2% decline in the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding, driven by our share repurchase program. 

While foreign currency markets remain volatile, we continue to see opportunities to drive future growth and profitability, and remain committed to effectively managing our business to achieve our financial goals over the long-term by executing against the operational strategies outlined above. 

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures, including references to wholesale equivalent revenues and currency-neutral revenues, which should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. References to wholesale equivalent revenues are intended to provide context as to the total size of our NIKE Brand market footprint if we had no NIKE Direct operations. 

Additionally, management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with additional financial information that should be considered when assessing our underlying business performance and trends. 

These changes had no impact on previously reported consolidated results of operations or shareholders’ equity. 

(2)The percent change has been calculated using actual exchange rates in use during the comparative prior year period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends by excluding the impact of translation arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. 

(3)Global Brand Divisions revenues are primarily attributable to NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment. 

(4)Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. 

(5)References to NIKE Brand wholesale equivalent revenues, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures, are intended to provide context as to the total size of our NIKE Brand market footprint if we had no NIKE Direct operations. 

(6)Others include all unisex products, equipment and other products not allocated to Men’s, Women’s and Young Athletes’, as well as certain adjustments that are not allocated to products designated by gender or age. 

(7)Others include all other categories and certain adjustments that are not allocated at the category level. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Revenue growth was broad-based, as Greater China, EMEA and APLA each contributed approximately 2 percentage points of the increase in NIKE, Inc. For fiscal 2018, lower revenues from North America and Converse each reduced NIKE, Inc. Revenues by approximately 1 percentage point. 

On a category basis, the increase in NIKE Brand footwear revenues was due to strong growth in Sportswear and Running, which was partially offset by lower revenues in several other categories, most notably the Jordan Brand. 

Unit sales of apparel increased 4% and higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 5 percentage points of apparel revenue growth, primarily due to higher ASPs from full-price, off-price and NIKE Direct sales. 

On a reported basis, digital commerce sales, which are not included in comparable store sales, were $2.8 billion for fiscal 2018 compared to $2.2 billion for fiscal 2017, and represented approximately 27% of our total NIKE Brand NIKE Direct revenues for fiscal 2018 compared to 24% for fiscal 2017. Comparable store sales include revenues from NIKE-owned in-line and factory stores for which all three of the following requirements have been met: (1) the store has been open at least one year, (2) square footage has not changed by more than 15% within the past year and (3) the store has not been permanently repositioned within the past year. 

Revenues for our Young Athletes’ business decreased 1%, as growth in Football (Soccer), was more than offset by lower revenues in the Jordan Brand. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Revenue growth was broad-based, as EMEA, Greater China, APLA and North America each contributed approximately 2 percentage points of the increase in NIKE, Inc. 

On a currency-neutral basis, NIKE Brand footwear and apparel revenues increased 8% and 9%, respectively, for fiscal 2017, while NIKE Brand equipment revenues decreased 3%. 

Unit sales of apparel increased 6%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 3 percentage points of apparel revenue growth, primarily due to higher full-price ASP and, to a lesser extent, growth in our higher-priced NIKE Direct business. 

On a reported basis, digital commerce sales, which are not included in comparable store sales, were $2.2 billion for fiscal 2017 compared to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2016 and represented approximately 24% of our total NIKE Direct revenues for fiscal 2017 compared to 22% for fiscal 2016. 

Revenues for our Young Athletes’ business increased 8%, with growth across multiple categories, most notably the Jordan Brand. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

For fiscal 2018, our consolidated gross margin was 80 basis points lower than fiscal 2017, primarily reflecting the following factors: 

•Unfavorable changes in net foreign currency exchange rates, including hedges (decreasing gross margin approximately 90 basis points); 

•Lower NIKE Direct margin (decreasing gross margin approximately 10 basis points) reflecting higher mix of off-price sales in the first half of fiscal 2018, which was partially offset by margin expansion in the second half of fiscal 2018; 

•NIKE Brand full-price ASP, net of discounts, on a wholesale equivalent basis, which was flat for fiscal 2018 as higher discounts in the first half of fiscal 2018 were offset by higher full-price ASP in the second half of the year; and 

•NIKE Brand product costs, on a wholesale equivalent basis, which were flat. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

For fiscal 2017, our consolidated gross margin was 160 basis points lower than fiscal 2016, primarily driven by the following factors: 

•Higher NIKE Brand full-price ASP, net of discounts, on a wholesale equivalent basis (increasing gross margin approximately 70 basis points) aligned with our strategy to deliver innovative, premium products to the consumer; 

•Higher NIKE Brand product costs (decreasing gross margin approximately 100 basis points) as an increase in the mix of higher cost products and labor input cost inflation more than offset lower material input costs; 

•Unfavorable changes in net foreign currency exchange rates, including hedges (decreasing gross margin approximately 90 basis points); and 

•Lower NIKE Direct margins (decreasing gross margin approximately 20 basis points) reflecting the impact of higher off-price sales. 

(1)Demand creation expense consists of advertising and promotion costs, including costs of endorsement contracts, complimentary product, television, digital and print advertising and media costs, brand events and retail brand presentation. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased Demand creation expense by approximately 3 percentage points for fiscal 2018. 

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased Operating overhead expense by approximately 2 percentage points for fiscal 2018. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced Demand creation expense by approximately 1 percentage point. 

Operating overhead expense was flat compared to fiscal 2016 as continued investments in our growing NIKE Direct business were offset by administrative cost efficiencies and lower variable compensation. 

Other expense (income), net comprises foreign currency conversion gains and losses from the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, and the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, as well as unusual or non-operating transactions outside the normal course of business. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Other expense (income), net changed from $196 million of other income, net for fiscal 2017 to $66 million of other expense, net for fiscal 2018, primarily due to a $287 million net detrimental change in foreign currency conversion gains and losses, including hedges. 

We estimate the combination of the translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign currency-related gains and losses included in Other expense (income), net had an unfavorable impact on our Income before income taxes of $110 million for fiscal 2018. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Other expense (income), net increased from $140 million of other income, net for fiscal 2016 to $196 million of other income, net for fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $56 million net beneficial change in foreign currency conversion gains and losses. 

We estimate the combination of the translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign currency-related gains and losses included in Other expense (income), net had an unfavorable impact on our Income before income taxes of $59 million for fiscal 2017. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Our effective tax rate was 55.3% for fiscal 2018, reflecting the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The impact of the Tax Act primarily reflects provisional expense of $1,875 million for the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings and $158 million resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. 

Refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of ASU 2016-09, and Note 9 — Income Taxes for additional information on the impact of the Tax Act. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

The 550 basis point decrease in our effective tax rate for the fiscal year was primarily due to a one-time benefit in the first quarter of the fiscal year related to the resolution with the IRS of a foreign tax credit matter and a decrease in foreign earnings taxed in the United States. 

Our operating segments are evidence of the structure of the Company’s internal organization. 

Each NIKE Brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment. 

Converse is also a reportable segment for the Company and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. 

As part of our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program, standard foreign currency rates are assigned twice per year to each NIKE Brand entity in our geographic operating segments and Converse. Inventories and Cost of sales for geographic operating segments and Converse reflect the use of these standard rates to record non-functional currency product purchases into the entity’s functional currency. 

The breakdown of revenues is as follows: 

This includes reclassified operating segment data to reflect the changes in the Company’s operating structure, which became effective June 1, 2017. 

(2) The percent change has been calculated using actual exchange rates in use during the comparative prior year period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of translation arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. 

(3) Global Brand Divisions revenues are primarily attributable to NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment. 

(4)Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. 

As discussed in Note 17 — Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in EBIT of our operating segments. 

The breakdown of earnings before interest and taxes is as follows: 

This includes reclassified operating segment data to reflect the changes in the Company’s operating structure, which became effective June 1, 2017. 

In the current marketplace environment, we believe there has been a meaningful shift in the way consumers shop for product and make purchasing decisions. The evolution of the North America marketplace has resulted in third-party retail store closures; however, we are currently seeing stabilization and momentum building in our business, fueled by innovative product and NIKE Brand consumer experiences, leveraging digital. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

North America revenues decreased 2%, as growth in our Sportswear and NIKE Basketball categories was more than offset by declines in all other categories, most notably the Jordan Brand and Running. 

Footwear revenues declined 4% for fiscal 2018, as lower revenues in nearly all categories, most notably the Jordan Brand, more than offset higher revenues in Sportswear. 

Unit sales of apparel decreased 4%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 5 percentage points of apparel revenue growth, primarily due to the favorable impact of growth in our NIKE Direct business and, to a lesser extent, higher full-price ASP and favorable changes in off-price sales. 

EBIT declined 7% for fiscal 2018, primarily reflecting lower revenues and higher selling and administrative expense. Gross margin declined 10 basis points as lower full-price ASP more than offset the favorable impact of growth in our NIKE Direct business. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

NIKE Direct revenues increased 9% for fiscal 2017 due to digital commerce sales growth, the addition of new stores and comparable store sales growth of 3%. 

Footwear revenue growth for fiscal 2017 was attributable to higher revenues in our Sportswear and Jordan Brand categories, partially offset by declines in other categories. 

Unit sales of apparel grew 2% and higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 1 percentage point of apparel revenue growth, primarily due to higher full-price ASP. 

EBIT grew 3% for fiscal 2017 as revenue growth and gross margin expansion were partially offset by higher selling and administrative expense as a percent of revenues. Demand creation was flat as higher sports marketing and retail brand presentation costs offset lower marketing and advertising costs. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

NIKE Direct revenues grew 13% for fiscal 2018 due to strong digital commerce sales growth, comparable store sales growth of 6% and the addition of new stores. 

For fiscal 2018, unit sales of footwear increased 6% while ASP per pair was flat, as higher off-price ASP was offset by lower full-price ASP. 

Unit sales of apparel increased 12% and higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 4 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. 

Gross margin declined 180 basis points as lower product costs were more than offset by unfavorable standard foreign currency exchange rates, lower full-price ASP due to product mix, and lower NIKE Direct margin. Operating overhead also increased primarily due to continued investments in our growing NIKE Direct business and, to a lesser extent, higher administrative costs. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

On a currency-neutral basis, EMEA revenues for fiscal 2017 increased 10%. NIKE Direct revenues grew 27% for fiscal 2017 due to comparable store sales growth of 15%, strong digital commerce sales growth and the addition of new stores. 

For fiscal 2017, unit sales of footwear increased 5% and higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 3 percentage points of footwear revenue growth. 

Unit sales of apparel for fiscal 2017 increased 12%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 5 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. 

Gross margin declined 530 basis points primarily driven by the effects of significant unfavorable standard foreign currency exchange rates. Selling and administrative expense increased due to higher demand creation expense, as increased sports marketing and advertising expenses more than offset lower marketing costs. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

NIKE Direct revenues increased 27%, driven by strong digital commerce sales growth, the addition of new stores and comparable store sales growth of 10%. 

Currency-neutral footwear revenues increased 16% for fiscal 2018, driven by growth in nearly all key categories, most notably Running and the Jordan Brand. 

The increase in ASP per unit was attributable to higher full-price, off-price and NIKE Direct ASPs. 

Gross margin contracted 210 basis points primarily due to unfavorable standard foreign currency exchange rates and lower off-price margin, including through our NIKE Direct business. Demand creation expense also grew, primarily driven by higher retail brand presentation costs. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

On a currency-neutral basis, Greater China revenues for fiscal 2017 increased 17%, driven by higher revenues in nearly all key categories, led by Running, Sportswear and the Jordan Brand. 

The currency-neutral increase in footwear revenue for fiscal 2017 was driven by growth in nearly all key categories, most notably Running, Sportswear and the Jordan Brand. 

The increase in ASP per unit was attributable to higher full-price ASP, partially offset by lower ASP in our NIKE Direct business and unfavorable off-price mix. 

Despite the negative impact of translation, reported EBIT increased 10% for fiscal 2017 driven by higher revenues and selling and administrative expense leverage, partially offset by lower gross margin. Demand creation expense also increased as higher marketing costs more than offset lower retail brand presentation and sports marketing expenses. 

 Asia Pacific & Latin America 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

On a currency-neutral basis, APLA revenues increased 10%, driven by higher revenues in every territory. Revenues increased in all key categories, led by Sportswear and Running. 

Unit sales of footwear increased 5% and higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 4 percentage points of footwear revenue growth, driven by higher full-price, off-price and NIKE Direct ASPs. 

The increase in ASP per unit was primarily driven by higher full-price ASP and, to a lesser extent, favorable off-price mix and higher off-price ASP. 

Gross margin increased 90 basis points as higher full-price ASP and favorable standard foreign currency exchange rates more than offset higher product costs. The decrease in demand creation expense was primarily attributable to lower marketing costs as a result of prior year investments to support the Rio Olympics. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

On a currency-neutral basis, APLA revenues for fiscal 2017 increased 13%. Additionally, revenues increased in all key categories, led by Running and Sportswear. 

The increase in currency-neutral footwear revenue for fiscal 2017 was attributable to growth in all key categories, most notably Running and Sportswear. 

The increase in ASP per unit was primarily driven by higher full-price ASP, in part reflecting inflationary conditions in certain territories. 

Gross margin decreased 370 basis points as higher full-price ASP was more than offset by unfavorable standard foreign currency exchange rates and higher product costs. Demand creation expense also increased as lower advertising costs were more than offset by increased marketing support for the Rio Olympics in the first quarter, as well as higher sports marketing costs. 

Global Brand Divisions primarily represent demand creation, operating overhead and product creation and design expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Demand creation expense decreased driven by lower advertising and marketing costs, largely resulting from prior year investments to support the Rio Olympics and the European Football Championship, which were only partially offset by higher sports marketing costs. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Global Brand Divisions’ loss before interest and taxes increased 3% for fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher demand creation expense, which was only partially offset by a decline in operating overhead expense. 

The largest direct distribution markets are the United States, the United Kingdom and China. We do not own the Converse trademarks in Japan and accordingly do not earn revenues in Japan. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

On a currency-neutral basis, revenues for Converse declined 11% for fiscal 2018. Comparable direct distribution markets (i.e., markets served under a direct distribution model for comparable periods in the current and prior fiscal years) declined 12%, reducing total Converse revenues by approximately 11 percentage points for fiscal 2018. Conversion of markets from licensed to direct distribution increased total Converse revenues by approximately 1 percentage point for fiscal 2018. 

Gross margin decreased 100 basis points as higher full-price ASP was more than offset by higher product costs and the unfavorable impact of lower licensing revenues. Higher operating overhead expense was due to continued investment in our direct to consumer business and, to a lesser extent, higher wage-related costs, while higher demand creation expense was due to increased marketing support for initiatives to drive growth. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Comparable direct distribution markets grew 4%, contributing approximately 4 percentage points of total Converse revenue growth for fiscal 2017. On a currency-neutral basis, revenues for Converse increased 6% for fiscal 2017. The decrease in comparable licensed markets revenues is primarily due to lower revenues in Latin America. 

Gross margin decreased 300 basis points as higher full-price ASP was more than offset by unfavorable standard foreign currency exchange rates and higher product costs, primarily due to a shift in mix to lower margin products. Operating overhead increased as higher wage-related expenses were only partially offset by lower administrative costs. 

Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. 

The Corporate loss before interest and taxes largely consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, including expenses associated with centrally managed departments; depreciation and amortization related to our corporate headquarters; unallocated insurance, benefit and compensation programs, including stock-based compensation; and certain foreign currency gains and losses. 

In addition to the foreign currency gains and losses recognized in Corporate revenues, foreign currency results in Corporate include gains and losses resulting from the difference between actual foreign currency rates and standard rates used to record non-functional currency denominated product purchases within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse; related foreign currency hedge results; conversion gains and losses arising from re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies; and certain other foreign currency derivative instruments. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

For fiscal 2018, Corporate’s loss before interest and taxes increased $732 million primarily due to the following: 

•a detrimental change in net foreign currency gains and losses of $281 million related to the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies and the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, reported as a component of consolidated Other expense (income), net; 

•an unfavorable change of $255 million, primarily due to higher operating overhead expense driven by higher wage-related costs, in part reflecting one-time costs associated with our organizational realignment in the first half of fiscal 2018, as well as higher administrative costs; and 

•a detrimental change of $196 million related to the difference between actual foreign currency exchange rates and standard foreign currency exchange rates assigned to the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, net of hedge gains and losses; these results are reported as a component of consolidated gross margin. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

For fiscal 2017, Corporate’s loss before interest and taxes decreased $449 million primarily due to the following: 

•a beneficial change of $280 million related to the difference between actual foreign currency exchange rates and standard foreign currency exchange rates assigned to the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, net of hedge gains and losses; these results are reported as a component of consolidated gross margin; 

•a beneficial change of $115 million, primarily driven by lower variable compensation and administrative costs in operating overhead expense; and 

•an increase in net foreign currency gains of $54 million related to the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies and the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, reported as a component of consolidated Other expense (income), net. 

Foreign Currency Exposures and Hedging Practices 

Our primary foreign currency exposures arise from the recording of transactions denominated in non-functional currencies and the translation of foreign currency denominated results of operations, financial position and cash flows into U.S. 

Our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As described below, the implementation of the NIKE Trading Company (“NTC”) and our foreign currency adjustment program enhanced our ability to manage our foreign exchange risk by increasing the natural offsets and currency correlation benefits existing within our portfolio of foreign exchange exposures. Our hedging policy is designed to partially or entirely offset the impact of exchange rate changes on the underlying net exposures being hedged. 

Refer to Note 6 — Fair Value Measurements and Note 16 — Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of how the above financial instruments are valued and recorded, as well as the fair value of outstanding derivatives at each reported period end. 

Our most significant transactional foreign currency exposures are: 

•Product Costs — NIKE’s product costs are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies in the following ways: 

1.Product purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity: 

The NTC, whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, then sells the products to NIKE entities in their respective functional currencies. 

b.Other NIKE entities purchase product directly from third-party factories in U.S. 

In both purchasing scenarios, a weaker U.S. Dollar decreases inventory costs incurred by NIKE whereas a stronger U.S. Dollar increases its cost. 

The program is designed to more effectively manage foreign currency risk by assuming certain of the factories’ foreign currency exposures, some of which are natural offsets to our existing foreign currency exposures. 

For the currency within the factory currency exposure indices that is the local or functional currency of the factory, the currency rate fluctuation affecting the product cost is recorded within Inventories and is recognized in Cost of sales when the related product is sold to a third-party. 

As an offset to the impacts of the fluctuating U.S. Dollar on our non-functional currency denominated product purchases described above, a strengthening U.S. Dollar against the foreign currencies within the factory currency exposure indices decreases NIKE’s U.S. Dollar inventory cost. 

•Non-Functional Currency Denominated External Sales — A portion of our EMEA geography revenues, as well as a portion of our Converse European operations revenues, are earned in currencies other than the Euro (e.g., the British Pound) but are recognized at a subsidiary that uses the Euro as its functional currency. 

These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement which may create fluctuations in Other expense (income), net within our consolidated results of operations. 

We manage these exposures by taking advantage of natural offsets and currency correlations that exist within the portfolio and may also elect to use currency forward and option contracts to hedge the remaining effect of exchange rate fluctuations on probable forecasted future cash flows, including certain product cost exposures, non-functional currency denominated external sales and other costs described above. 

Certain currency forward contracts used to manage the foreign exchange exposure of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities subject to re-measurement and embedded derivative contracts are not formally designated as hedging instruments under U.S. GAAP. 

In the translation of our Consolidated Statements of Income, a weaker U.S. Dollar in relation to foreign functional currencies benefits our consolidated earnings whereas a stronger U.S. Dollar reduces our consolidated earnings. Dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income within the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated Revenues was a benefit of approximately $832 million and a detriment of approximately $542 million for the years ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Dollars as the subsidiary will be operating in a hyper-inflationary market. Although we continue to evaluate the impact, at current rates, we do not anticipate the re-measurement to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 

We utilize forward contracts and/or options to mitigate the variability of the forecasted future purchases and sales of these U.S. Dollar investments. The combination of the purchase and sale of the U.S. Dollar investment and the hedging instrument has the effect of partially offsetting the year-over-year foreign currency translation impact on net earnings in the period the investments are sold. Hedges of available-for-sale investments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 

We estimate the combination of translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign currency related gains and losses included in Other expense (income), net had an unfavorable impact of approximately $110 million and $59 million on our Income before income taxes for the years ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

We are also exposed to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on our investments in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar, which could adversely impact the U.S. Dollar value of these investments and therefore the value of future repatriated earnings. There were no cash flows from net investment hedge settlements for the years ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. 

The net change in working capital and other assets and liabilities resulted in an increase of $1,482 million for fiscal 2018, compared to a decrease of $935 million for fiscal 2017. Impacting the change in working capital during fiscal 2018 was the accrual of $1,172 million for the transition tax under the Tax Act, which will be paid in cash over an eight-year period. Refer to Note 9 — Income Taxes for additional information on the Tax Act. 

During fiscal 2018, the net change in investments (including sales, maturities and purchases) resulted in a cash inflow of $1,326 million compared to an inflow of $118 million in fiscal 2017. 

In fiscal 2019, we plan to continue investing in our infrastructure to support future growth, including corporate facilities, expanding our digital capabilities and new NIKE Direct stores. 

The increase in Cash used by financing activities was also impacted by increased repurchases of common stock, which resulted in a cash outflow of $4,254 million for fiscal 2018 compared to an outflow of $3,223 million for fiscal 2017. 

In fiscal 2018, we purchased 69.7 million shares of NIKE’s Class B Common Stock for $4,267 million (an average price of $61.25 per share) under the four-year, $12 billion program approved by the Board of Directors in November 2015. We continue to expect funding of share repurchases will come from operating cash flows, excess cash and/or proceeds from debt. 

The Shelf expires on July 21, 2019. 

On August 28, 2015, we entered into a committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks, which provides for up to $2 billion of borrowings. 

We currently have long-term debt ratings of AA- and A1 from Standard and Poor’s Corporation and Moody’s Investor Services, respectively. Conversely, if our long-term debt ratings were to improve, the facility fee and interest rate would decrease. These covenants include limits on our disposal of fixed assets and the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur as well as limits on the indebtedness we can incur relative to our net worth. Under this facility, we have agreed to various covenants. 

During the year ended May 31, 2018, the maximum amount of commercial paper borrowings outstanding at any point was $1.4 billion. We may continue to issue commercial paper or other debt securities during fiscal 2019 depending on general corporate needs. 

To date, in fiscal 2018, we have not experienced difficulty accessing the credit markets or incurred higher interest costs; however, future volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments or affect our ability to access those markets. 

Our fixed-income investments are exposed to both credit and interest rate risk. While individual securities have varying durations, as of May 31, 2018, the weighted-average days to maturity of our cash equivalents and short-term investments portfolio was 33 days. 

We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our domestic and foreign capital needs in the foreseeable future. 

Based on our historical experience and the estimated probability of future loss, we have determined that the fair value of such indemnification is not material to our financial position or results of operations. 

Our significant long-term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2018, and significant endorsement contracts, including related marketing commitments, entered into through the date of this report are as follows: 

(1)Capital leases and other financing obligations include payments related to build-to-suit lease arrangements. 

Estimates of interest payments are based on outstanding principal amounts, applicable fixed interest rates or currently effective interest rates as of May 31, 2018 (if variable), timing of scheduled payments and the term of the debt obligations. 

Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as these contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athletic performance declines in future periods. 

It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this product on an annual basis as the contracts generally do not stipulate a specific amount of cash to be spent on the product. The amount of product provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors, including general playing conditions, the number of sporting events in which they participate and our own decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. 

The amounts listed for product purchase obligations represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms. 

The amounts represent the minimum payments required by legally binding contracts and agreements that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders for non-product purchases. 

Refer to Note 9 — Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. 

Refer to Note 9 — Income Taxes and Note 13 — Benefit Plans in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to uncertain tax positions and post-retirement benefits, respectively. 

Refer to Note 7 — Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description and interest rates related to the short-term debt obligations listed below. 

As of May 31, 2018, the Company had letters of credit outstanding totaling $165 million. 

Refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted and recently issued accounting standards. 

Our previous discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 

Management has reviewed and discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit & Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. 

Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale and digital commerce revenues are recorded upon delivery to the customer. 

Our revenues may fluctuate in cases when our customers delay accepting shipment of product for periods of up to several weeks. 

In these cases, we estimate the date of receipt by the customer based upon historical delivery times by geographic location. 

Our post invoice sales discounts consist of contractual programs with certain customers or discretionary discounts expected to be granted to certain customers at a later date. As part of our revenue recognition policy, we record estimated sales returns, discounts and miscellaneous claims from customers as reductions to revenues at the time revenues are recorded. 

In determining the amount of the allowance, we consider our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger allowance might be required. 

If we estimate the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to Cost of sales. 

In general, endorsement payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. 

Certain contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). 

When we determine payments are probable, the amounts are reported in Demand creation expense ratably over the contract period based on our best estimate of the endorser’s performance. 

We expense these payments in Cost of sales as the related sales occur. For contracts for which we estimate we will not meet the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, we record the amount of the guaranteed payment in excess of that earned through sales of product in Demand creation expense uniformly over the contract term. 

Property, Plant and Equipment and Definite-Lived Assets 

Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset group’s carrying amount and its estimated fair value. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. 

In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from Other comprehensive income into Net income sometime after the maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the notional value of these derivative contracts should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decline below hedged levels, or if it is no longer probable a forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter, we are required to reclassify the cumulative change in fair value of the over-hedged portion of the related hedge contract from Other comprehensive income to Other expense (income), net during the quarter in which the decrease occurs. 

We account for stock-based compensation by estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is estimated based on implied volatility in market traded options on our common stock with a term greater than one year, along with other factors. 

We are subject to taxation in the United States, as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. This estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year-to-date Income before income taxes excluding infrequently occurring or unusual items, to determine the year-to-date Income tax expense. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs. 

Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carry-forwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. 

Changes in our assessment may result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period our assessment changes. 

In accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. In accordance with SAB 118, the Company’s accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act will be completed during the measurement period, which should not extend beyond one year from the enactment date. 

Refer to Note 9 — Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us when a loss is assessed to be probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. In addition to contingent liabilities recorded for probable losses, we disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 