NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1967 under the laws of the State of Oregon. Our NIKE digital commerce website is located at www.nike.com. Also available on our corporate website are the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics; copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to NIKE Investor Relations, One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453. All such filings on our corporate website are available free of charge. 

NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products through NIKE-owned retail stores and through digital platforms (which we refer to collectively as our “NIKE Direct” operations), to retail accounts and a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives in virtually all countries around the world. 

We also market products designed for kids, as well as for other athletic and recreational uses such as American football, baseball, cricket, lacrosse, skateboarding, tennis, volleyball, wrestling, walking and outdoor activities. 

Sportswear, Running and the Jordan Brand are currently our top-selling footwear categories and we expect them to continue to lead in footwear sales. 

Our sports apparel, similar to our athletic footwear products, is designed primarily for athletic use and exemplifies our commitment to innovation and high-quality construction. We also sell sports apparel covering the above-mentioned categories, which feature the same trademarks and are sold predominantly through the same marketing and distribution channels as athletic footwear. 

We sell a line of performance equipment and accessories under the NIKE Brand name, including bags, socks, sport balls, eyewear, timepieces, digital devices, bats, gloves, protective equipment and other equipment designed for sports activities. 

Our Jordan Brand designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories predominantly focused on basketball using the Jumpman trademark. 

Operating results of the Converse brand are reported on a stand-alone basis. 

Another of our wholly-owned subsidiary brands, Hurley, headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, designs and distributes a line of action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and accessories under the Hurley trademark. 

In addition to the products we sell to our wholesale customers and directly to consumers through our NIKE Direct operations, we have also entered into license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture and sell, using NIKE-owned trademarks, certain apparel, digital devices and applications and other equipment designed for sports activities. 

Financial information about geographic and segment operations appears in Note 17 — Operating Segments and Related Information of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third quarters. 

Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. 

Each NIKE Brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment. Sales through our NIKE Direct operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. 

Converse direct to consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the Converse operating segment results. 

We sell our NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. During fiscal 2018, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 21% of sales in the United States. 

Our NIKE Direct and Converse direct to consumer operations sell NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to consumers through various digital platforms. 

Smaller leased, and third-party leased and operated, distribution facilities are located in various parts of the United States. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment are also shipped from our Foothill Ranch, California distribution center, which we lease. 

During fiscal 2018, NIKE’s three largest customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 13% of total non-U.S. sales. We sell our products to retail accounts, through our own NIKE Direct operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. 

In addition to NIKE and Converse owned digital commerce platforms in over 45 countries, our NIKE Direct and Converse direct to consumer businesses operate the following number of retail stores outside the United States: 

International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam. 

No customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2018. 

We believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. 

Employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. 

Using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. 

We are supplied by 124 footwear factories located in 13 countries. The largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 9% of total fiscal 2018 NIKE Brand footwear production. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in Argentina, India, Brazil, Mexico and Italy to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. 

Virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. For fiscal 2018, one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 47% of NIKE Brand apparel production. 

The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make NIKE Air-Sole cushioning components. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE’s independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. 

Approximately 6% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of America (“Sojitz America”), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. Such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. 

We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. 

In recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. Notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for NIKE, as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. 

We monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. There have also been discussions and commentary regarding retaliatory actions by countries affected by the new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. goods, which could negatively affect U.S. corporations with business operations and/or consumer markets in those countries. In addition, with respect to proposed trade restrictions targeting China, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers China’s domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. 

However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. 

NIKE advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. 

Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. 

The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. 

Important aspects of competition in this industry are: 

•Product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. 

•Consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. 

•Effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. 

We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. 

We pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. 

In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. 

We have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. 

We own patents and have a license under other patents, which facilitate our use of “Air” technologies. 

These patents expire at various times. 

We believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. 

However, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications in the United States and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. 

As of May 31, 2018, we had approximately 73,100 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. Management is committed to maintaining an environment where all NIKE employees have the opportunity to reach their full potential. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Asia Pacific & Latin America geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. 

The executive officers of NIKE, Inc. as of July 24, 2018 are as follows: 

Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of product development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998 and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001. 

Chris L. Abston, Vice President and Corporate Controller — Mr. Abston, 55, joined NIKE in 2015 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he served as Vice President, Global Controls and Governance since February 2015. 

Prior to joining NIKE, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at The Walt Disney Company from 1996 to 2007. Mr. Campion assumed the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2015. 

He has served as Apparel Sales Director in Europe, Retail Development Director in Europe, Vice President of Sales and Retail in EMEA, General Manager of US Retail, Vice President of US Sales, Retail and NIKE.com, and Vice President of Global Retail. Mr. Hill was appointed President, Consumer and Marketplace in March 2018. 

Hilary K. Krane, Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel — Ms. Krane, 54, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss & Co. from 2006 to 2010. 

Ms. Matheson was appointed Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources in July 2017. 

Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for Asia Pacific and Americas in 2006, divisional Vice President of Asia Pacific & Americas Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. 

Eric D. Sprunk, Chief Operating Officer — Mr. Sprunk, 54, joined NIKE in 1993. Mr. Sprunk was appointed Vice President of Global Footwear in 2001, Vice President of Merchandising and Product in 2009 and Chief Operating Officer in 2013. 