We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, grocery and foodservice accounts. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation’s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SBUX.” We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea and other beverages and a variety of high-quality food items, including snack offerings, through company-operated stores. 

Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. In addition, by leveraging the experience gained through our traditional store model, we continue to offer consumers new coffee and other products in a variety of forms, across new categories, diverse channels and alternative store formats. 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“10-K” or “Report”) for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2017 (“fiscal 2017”), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as “Starbucks,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our.” 

Revenues from our reportable segments and All Other Segments as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal 2017 were as follows: Americas (70%), CAP (14%), EMEA (5%), Channel Development (9%) and All Other Segments (2%). We also have several non-reportable operating segments, including Teavana retail stores and Seattle's Best Coffee, as well as certain developing businesses such as Siren Retail, which includes the Starbucks ReserveTM Roastery & Tasting Rooms, certain Starbucks ReserveTM locations and Princi operations. 

Our Americas segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. The Americas, CAP and EMEA segments also include certain foodservice accounts, primarily in Canada, Japan and the U.K. 

Our Channel Development segment includes roasted whole bean and ground coffees, premium Tazo teas, Starbucks- and Tazo-branded single-serve products, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Frappuccino, Starbucks Doubleshot and Starbucks Refreshers beverages and other branded products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse clubs, specialty retailers, convenience stores and U.S. foodservice accounts. 

Starbucks segment information is included in Note 16, Segment Reporting, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K. 

We generate nearly all of our revenues through company-operated stores, licensed stores, consumer packaged goods (“CPG”) and foodservice operations. 

Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of October 1, 2017 

The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including our ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks and our ability to leverage the support infrastructure within a geographic region. 

The Starbucks Experience is built upon superior customer service and a seamless digital experience as well as clean and well-maintained stores that reflect the personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. 

Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to increase our market share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. 

Company-operated store data for the year-ended October 1, 2017: 

(1) China/Asia Pacific store data includes the transfer of 133 Singapore company-operated retail stores to licensed stores as a result of the sale to Maxim's Caterers Limited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. 

Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses and in select rural and off-highway locations. 

Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores: 

(1) “Other” primarily consists of sales of serveware, ready-to-drink beverages and coffee-making equipment, among other items. 

Stored value cards are issued to customers when they initially load them with an account balance. They can be obtained in our company-operated and most licensed stores in North America, China, Japan, Latin America, and many of our markets in our CAP and EMEA segments. Using the Mobile Order and Pay functionality of the Starbucks Mobile App, customers can also place orders in advance for pick-up at certain participating locations in the U.S. and Canada. Registered members can receive various benefits depending on factors such as the number of reward points (“Stars”) earned. 

Revenues from our licensed stores accounted for 11% of total net revenues in fiscal 2017. 

Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of these arrangements, we sell coffee, tea, food and related products to licensees for resale to customers and receive royalties and license fees from the licensees. For Starbucks and Teavana stores within certain international markets, we also use traditional franchising and include these stores in the results of operations from our other licensed stores. 

Licensed store data for the year-ended October 1, 2017: 

(1) China/Asia Pacific store data includes the transfer of 133 Singapore company-operated retail stores to licensed stores as a result of the sale to Maxim's Caterers Limited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. 

It also includes revenues from product sales to and licensing revenues from manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks-, Seattle’s Best Coffee- and Tazo-branded products through licensing agreements. 

We sell Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee roasted whole bean and ground coffees, a selection of premium Tazo teas, Starbucks VIA Ready Brew, and other coffee and tea-related products to institutional foodservice companies that service business and industry, education, healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants, airlines and other retailers. The majority of the sales in this channel come through national broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, U.S. Foodservice and other distributors. 

We purchase green coffee beans from multiple coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards for our many blends and single origin coffees. 

The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Both the premium and the commodity price depend upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. 

Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through fiscal 2018. For other contracts, Starbucks and the seller may agree upon pricing parameters determined by the base “C” coffee commodity price. Total green coffee purchase commitments as of October 1, 2017 were $1.2 billion, comprised of $860 million under fixed-price contracts and an estimated $336 million under price-to-be-fixed contracts. Until prices are fixed, we estimate the total cost of these purchase commitments. 

We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of green coffee. 

To help ensure the future supply of high-quality green coffee and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates eight farmer support centers. 

In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated stores. 

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks stores include tea and a number of ready-to-drink beverages that are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and distribution operations. 

In almost all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business. Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are specialty coffee shops offering premium and artisanal products and experiences. 

Our coffee and tea products sold through our Channel Development segment compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through grocery stores, warehouse clubs, specialty retailers, convenience stores and U.S. foodservice accounts and compete indirectly against all other coffees and teas on the market. 

Trademarks, Copyrights, Patents and Domain Names 

Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Starbucks Reserve, Tazo, Seattle’s Best Coffee, Teavana, Frappuccino, Starbucks VIA and La Boulange are of material importance. Starbucks owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in other countries throughout the world. 

We own numerous copyrights for items such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. 

However, since revenues from Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when cash is loaded onto the Card, the impact of seasonal fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings is much less pronounced. As a result of moderate seasonal fluctuations, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. 

Approximately 92,000 employees were employed outside of the U.S., with approximately 89,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support operations. We believe our current relations with our employees are good. 

(1) Channels includes various business groups, including channel development and certain emerging brands, including Seattle's Best Coffee and Evolution Fresh. 

Howard Schultz is the founder of Starbucks Corporation and has served as executive chairman since April 2017. He served as chief executive officer until April 2017 and served as president until March 2015. From November 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president. From January 1986 to July 1987, Mr. Schultz was the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and president of Il Giornale Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company. 

Kevin R. Johnson has served as president and chief executive officer since April 2017, and has been a Starbucks director since March 2009. He also served on the Board of Directors of Juniper Networks from September 2008 through February 2014. Prior to joining Juniper Networks, Mr. Johnson served as President, Platforms and Services Division for Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide provider of software, services and solutions. 

Brewer served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sam's Club, a membership-only retail warehouse club and a division of Walmart, from February 2012 to February 2017. She serves as the Chair of the Board of Trustees for Spelman College and formerly served on the Board of Directors for Lockheed Martin Corporation and Molson Coors Brewing Company. 

Mr. Burrows also oversees Global Coffee and the Teavana brand. From February 2014 to June 2015, he served as group president, U.S., Americas and Teavana. Cliff Burrows joined Starbucks in April 2001 and has served as group president, Siren Retail, since September 2016, which includes the Starbucks ReserveTM Roastery & Tasting Rooms, Starbucks Reserve brand and products and Princi operations. He served as president, EMEA from April 2006 to March 2008. 

From September 2016 to October 2017, he served as group president, Starbucks Global Retail. Mr. Culver served as president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific from October 2011 to May 2013. Mr. Culver served as executive vice president; president, Global Consumer Products, Foodservice and Seattle’s Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009, and then as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice from October 2009 to November 2009. 

Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Maw served as chief financial officer of SeaBright Insurance Company from February 2010 to August 2011. From October 2008 to February 2010, Mr. Maw served as chief financial officer of the Consumer Banking division of JPMorgan Chase & Co., having held a similar position at Washington Mutual Bank prior to its acquisition by Chase. Mr. Maw serves on the Board of Directors of Avista Corporation. 

From July 2011 to July 2017, he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary. Mr. Mutty previously served as vice president, assistant general counsel from June 2002 to July 2011 and as director, corporate counsel from September 1998 to June 2002. Mr. Mutty has previously led the Starbucks legal department's EMEA region, Channel Development, Starbucks Law & Corporate Affairs business operations, global commercial, litigation, regulatory, technology, real estate and licensing legal teams. 

Our focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, reducing our environmental impacts and contributing positively to communities around the world. As a result, we believe we deliver benefits to our stakeholders, including employees, business partners, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community members and others. 

Starbucks 10-K reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.starbucks.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. 