Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 

Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry 

If we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. 

We had 330 million average MAUs in the three months ended December 31, 2017, representing a 4% increase from 318 million average MAUs in the three months ended December 31, 2016 (see section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Note About Our MAU Adjustment” below). We anticipate that our user growth rate will continue to slow over time as the size of our user base increases. The size of our user base and our users’ level of engagement are critical to our success. For example, in general, a higher proportion of Internet users in the United States uses Twitter than Internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the United States. A number of consumer-oriented websites or platforms that achieved early popularity have seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. A number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: 

users, including influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics, engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; 

we are unable to convince potential or new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; 

there is a decrease in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users or content partners; 

our content partners terminate their relationships with us or do not renew their agreements on economic or other terms that are favorable to us; 

there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security, spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage or other factors; 

we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; 

technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, including issues with connecting to the Internet; 

users have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; 

we are unable to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; 

users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, format, relevance and prominence of ads or other content that we display; 

there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, laws, legislation, inquiries from legislative bodies, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; 

we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or 

we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. 

If we are unable to increase our user base, user growth rate or user engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to potential or new users, as well as to advertisers, content partners and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. 

If our users or content partners do not continue to contribute content or such content is not viewed as unique or engaging by other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing our products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of content partners, advertisers, platform partners and revenue. 

Our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with unique and engaging content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. We also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. We seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. If users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content or content providers do not license content to Twitter, and we are unable to provide users with unique, engaging and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. 

We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. 

The substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on Twitter. We generated approximately 89% and 86% of our revenue from advertising in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. We generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our Promoted Products: Promoted Tweets, Promoted Accounts and Promoted Trends. Advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our Promoted Products. As is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. Our future revenue growth, however, may be limited by available advertising inventory for specific ad types on certain days if we do not increase the number of our users, their engagement or monetize our larger global audience. Our advertising revenue also could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: 

decreases in user engagement with the ads on our platform and those that we serve off of our platform; 

decreases in the size of our user base or user growth rate; 

if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our Promoted Products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our Promoted Products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful or reliable; 

if we are unable to demonstrate the value of, or attract video and video advertisements, on our platform; 

decreases in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users or content partners; 

if our Promoted Products are not cost effective or not valued by certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of advertisers; 

if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on Twitter; 

our advertisers’ ability to optimize their campaigns or effectively and reliably measure the results of their campaigns; 

product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on Twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; 

our inability to increase advertiser demand and spend from new and existing advertisers as well as advertising inventory; 

our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; 

our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users particularly for ads served through our app mobile-focused advertising exchange; 

decreases in the cost per ad engagement; 

failure to effectively monetize our growing international user base, our logged-out audience or our syndicated audience; 

loss of advertising market share to our competitors; 

the degree to which users access Twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; 

any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; 

if our new advertising strategies do not gain traction; 

the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; 

adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to our metrics or the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; 

our inability to create new products, product features and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; 

changes to our products or development of new products or product features that decrease users’ ad engagements or limit the types of user interactions that we count as ad engagements; 

the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our Promoted Products and our users; 

changes in the way our advertising is priced; and 

the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. 

The occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. 

If we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. 

Competition for users of our products and services is intense. We compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as Facebook (including Instagram and WhatsApp), Alphabet (including Google and YouTube), Microsoft (including LinkedIn), Snap and Oath (formerly known as Yahoo), which offer a variety of Internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. In addition, Alphabet may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. For example, Facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than Twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of Twitter. 

We believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: 

the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; 

the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users and content partners; 

the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; 

our ability, in and of itself and in comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; 

the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; 

our ability to establish and maintain relationships with content partners; 

our ability to develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; 

changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; 

the application of antitrust laws both in the United States and internationally; 

the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; 

our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; 

acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and 

our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. 

We also face significant competition for advertiser spend. In addition, many advertisers, particularly branded advertisers, use marketing mix analyses to determine how to allocate their advertising budgets on an annual or bi-annual basis. 

In order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. 

We believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: 

the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; 

our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; 

the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; 

our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; 

the pricing of our advertising products and services relative to those of our competitors; 

the actual or perceived return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and 

our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. 

Acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. Any similar elimination of integration with Twitter in the future, whether by Facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. For example, following Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram, Facebook disabled Instagram’s photo integration with Twitter such that Instagram photos were no longer viewable within Tweets and users are instead re-directed to Instagram to view Instagram photos through a link within a Tweet. 

Consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. 

If we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. 

Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. 

As a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. 

our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; 

our ability to attract and retain advertisers, content partners and platform partners; 

the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the World Cup, Super Bowl, Champions League Final, World Series, Olympics and the Oscars, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; 

the pricing of our products and services; 

the development and introduction of new products or services, changes in features of existing products or services or de-emphasis or termination of existing products, product features or services; 

the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; 

our ability to maintain or increase revenue; 

our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; 

increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; 

costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; 

system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; 

breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; 

adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; 

changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, tax, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; 

fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; 

changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and 

changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. 

If our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. For example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. 

We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and have seen high levels of attrition. 

At the same time, we are also experiencing high voluntary attrition, and the resulting influx of new leaders and other employees may require that we expend the time, attention and resources necessary to recruit and retain talent, restructure parts of our organization, and train and integrate new employees. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing employees or hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. In addition, to attract highly and retain skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. In addition, changes to U.S. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our business may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. 

We also believe that our culture and core values have been, and will continue to be, a key contributor to our success and our ability to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our operations. 

If we fail to monetize effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. 

Users who access Twitter through SMS messaging may monetize at lower rates than other users. Certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our Promoted Products. For example, in South Korea we face intense competition from a messaging service offered by Kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as Twitter. We may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the United States as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. We may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. The limitation of mobile devices of users in emerging and other markets limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 

As our user base continues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. For example, users outside the United States constituted 79% of our average MAUs in the three months ended December 31, 2017, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 44% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2017. 

User growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. 

We make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. Any changes, bugs or technical issues in such systems, devices or web browsers or changes in our relationships with mobile operating system partners or mobile carriers, or in their terms of service or policies that diminish the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for our users to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. Any such errors, regardless of whether caused by our infrastructure or that of the service provider, may result in the loss of our existing users or may make it difficult to attract new users. We also may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. In addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems in order to deliver our products and services. For example, a recent change was made to Safari’s integration with third-party applications including Twitter that resulted in a decrease of approximately 2 million MAUs who accessed Twitter by using registered third-party applications when those applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates without discernible user-initiated action. 

Our ability to convince potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. 

Despite our efforts to reduce barriers to consumption, people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our products confusing, which may make retention of such users more difficult. Convincing potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. 

Failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. 

We have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to maintain profitability. 

Although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $664.9 million in 2013 to $2.44 billion in 2017, our revenue growth rate has slowed as a result of a variety of factors. Our costs may increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: 

research and development for our products and services; 

strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and 

general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. 

If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to maintain profitability. 

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the Internet by our users, content partners, advertisers, and platform partners. 

Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. For example, access to Twitter is blocked in China and has been intermittently blocked in Turkey in the last three years and certain of our SMS messages have been blocked in Saudi Arabia. We also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. 

Our new products, product features, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract users, content partners, advertisers and platform partners or generate revenue. 

Our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving customer needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings. We must constantly assess the playing field and determine whether we need to improve or re-allocate resources amongst our existing products and services or create new ones (independently or in conjunction with third parties). For example, in 2015, we introduced Periscope, a mobile application that lets users share and experience live video from their mobile phones and in 2013, we introduced Vine, a mobile application that enabled users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, which we discontinued in January 2017 but transitioned certain product features to the Vine Camera app. We may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. If our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services, enable us to develop new approaches to monetization or meet the expectations of our users or third-party business partners, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. 

If we fail to effectively manage changes to our business and operations, our business and operating results could be harmed. 

Providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect certain of our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, in particular our video product features. Historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our operations. 

We intend to fully invest in our highest priorities, while eliminating investment in noncore areas. 

We focus on product innovation and user engagement rather than short-term operating results. 

We encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. We frequently make product, product feature and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. For example, we are investing in our new live-streaming video experiences, and we may not successfully monetize such experiences. This could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. 

Our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. 

One of the reasons people come to Twitter is for real-time information. Additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. Any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. 

In addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our user traffic increases. This would negatively impact our ability to attract users, content partners and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. 

If we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. 

We will also continue to experience media, legislative or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, content and other issues, which may adversely affect our reputation and brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. For example, we were recently made aware of certain actions taken by a social media marketing company to sell followers and engagement that were in violation of our policies but that drew media and regulatory scrutiny on us. Our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading (or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users), by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users’ accounts. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. 

Negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. 

Such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 

Spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 

“Spam” on Twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. This includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate Tweets, malicious automation, misleading links (e.g., to malware or “click-jacking” pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, Retweeting and liking Tweets to inappropriately attract attention. Although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on Twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. We continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. 

Action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor Twitter content could harm our business and operating results. 

Governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. In the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. 

Our future performance depends in part on support from our content partners and data partners. 

We believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by our content or platform partners. For instance, in July 2016, we partnered with the Major League Baseball Advanced Media to deliver a free live digital video stream of weekly MLB baseball games on Twitter. If our content or platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. 

Our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. 

We have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. Operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: 

recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; 

providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; 

increased competition from largely regional websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications and have strong positions in particular countries, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; 

differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; 

greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; 

compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data security, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; 

longer payment cycles in some countries; 

credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; 

operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States; 

Bribery Act, including by our business partners; 

foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; 

political and economic instability in some countries; 

double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the United States or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and 

higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. 

If we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 

Our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. 

Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. Although this issue did not expose passwords or information that could be used directly to access an account, it had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a small number of accounts (fewer than 10,000 active accounts). For example, in February 2016, we discovered, and corrected, a bug that affected our password recovery systems for about 24 hours. Errors, vulnerabilities, or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for users and advertisers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in targeting, measurement, or billing errors, compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property or lead to reductions in our ability to provide some or all of our services. 

Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. 

We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, security, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. Additionally, the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. 

From time to time, governments, regulators and others have expressed concerns about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. A number of proposals have recently been adopted or are currently pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. Additionally, we rely on a variety of legal bases to transfer certain personal information outside of the European Economic Area, including the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework, or Privacy Shield, and EU Standard Contractual Clauses, or SCCs. In particular, the European Union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. Any of these changes to EU data protection law could disrupt our business. 

In particular, it is unclear whether the United Kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with the GDPR and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated. 

Additionally, recent amendments to U.S. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. 

Additionally, because Twitter accepts payment via credit cards and is certified as a PCI Level 1 service provider, we are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure or claim of failure by the above-mentioned third parties to comply, could increase our costs or could result in liabilities. 

If we obtain such additional personal information, we may be subject to additional regulation. 

Regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. 

In March 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the FTC that, among other things, required us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. We have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. 

It is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. 

If our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. 

Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and advertisers’ information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, increased security costs and potential liability. We also work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. 

Additionally, the natural sunsetting of third-party products and operating systems that we use requires that our infrastructure teams reallocate time and attention to migration and updates, during which period potential security vulnerabilities could be exploited. 

Third parties may also gain access to Twitter user names and passwords without attacking Twitter directly by combining credential information from other recent breaches, using malware on victim machines that are stealing passwords for all sites, or a combination of both. As a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users’ or advertisers’ data. For example, we have previously disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for small subset of our users. 

Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our users and advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us, decrease the use of our products and services or stop using our products and services in their entirety. Any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. 

We may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. 

We have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third-party products or services. In particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation, content regulation and personal injury torts. In addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. 

Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. 

However, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. There can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. 

While in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. 

We are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the United States and in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States. 

We are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. Our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the Twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. For example, there is a risk that the word “Tweet” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the Internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. If the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. 

We also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology. In addition, any patents may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. 

The IPA, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. The IPA also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. Under the IPA, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. For example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. In addition, the IPA provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. 

Significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. 

Also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. 

We are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. 

In addition, various “non-practicing entities” that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. From time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. 

Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. Similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. We may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. In addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party’s rights. An unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 

Many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. 

We use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 

We may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. 

From time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. 

We rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. 

The number of our active users is calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. We estimate that false or spam accounts represent fewer than 5% of our MAUs as of December 31, 2017. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. For example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. We may also discover unexpected errors in our internal data that resulted from technical or other errors. These third-party applications used Digits, a software development kit of our now-divested Fabric platform that allowed third-party applications to send authentication messages via SMS through our systems, which did not relate to activity on the Twitter platform. Although the change in the MAUs was relatively small in relation to our overall MAU numbers, we may face increased scrutiny as a result of the error. 

In addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the IP address or phone number associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on Twitter. The impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geography because mobile application usage varies in different regions of the world. 

Our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. If investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures of user engagement are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be harmed. For example, we stopped disclosing timeline views as we no longer believed that metric was helpful in measuring engagement on our platform. 

We rely in part on application marketplaces and Internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 

We also depend in part on Internet search engines, such as Google, Apple Spotlight, Bing and Yahoo, to drive traffic to our website. Our competitors’ search engine optimization, or SEO, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or Internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. If Internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors’ SEO efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. 

More people are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet and new platforms to produce and consume content, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. 

The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including Promoted Trends and Promoted Accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. In addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. Our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. This has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. 

Acquisitions, divestitures and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. 

Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products, product features and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: 

diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; 

retention of key employees from the acquired company; 

cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; 

integration of the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems and processes; 

the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; 

liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; 

litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. 

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 

We may not realize a return and may recognize a loss on such investments. We also make investments in privately-held companies in furtherance of our strategic objectives. The success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on the availability to the company of additional funding on favorable terms, or a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. 

In 2017, we also deprecated certain of our revenue products, including TellApart, which was acquired in 2015. We may not realize the expected benefits and cost savings of these actions and our results may be harmed. 

If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. 

In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. 

Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. 

If currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in U.S. dollars, could be adversely affected. 

Our international operations expose us to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our operating results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 

Servicing our convertible senior notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under such notes, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of such notes. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had a total par value of $1.89 billion of outstanding Notes. 

In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. 

We also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the Notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. Our ability to refinance the Notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the Notes or repurchase the Notes in the event of a fundamental change will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the Notes we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. 

Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. 

A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. 

We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. 

We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. 

On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an international association of thirty four countries, including the U.S. and UK, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. We are subject to review and audit by U.S. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. 

Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. 

The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided for in U.S. tax law and the U.S. Department of Treasury may issue regulations and interpretive guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations. Additionally, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. As additional regulatory and interpretive guidance is issued, we may refine our analysis and make adjustments that differ from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. 

If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. 

Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. 

Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.43 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.47 billion. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5% shareholders” that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. In addition, the Tax Act includes changes to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, and our net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets have been revalued at the newly enacted rate. We do not expect this to have a material impact on our financials because we currently maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets. 

Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock 

Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. 

Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: 

creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; 

authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; 

limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; 

limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; 

requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and 

controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. 

These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. 

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. 

Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 

The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 

Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in November 2013 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $74.73 to $13.72, through December 31, 2017. 

price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; 

volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; 

changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; 

sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; 

rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; 

failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; 

the financial or non-financial metric projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; 

announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; 

the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; 

actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; 

actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; 

our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes; 

litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; 

developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; 

announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; 

new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; 

changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; 

any significant change in our management; and 

general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. 

Any securities litigation can result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 

The note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. 

Concurrently with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. 

The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). 

In addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. 

If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. 

If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. 

We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. 

In addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on payments including payments of cash dividends. 