The Company derives a substantial portion of its revenues and profits from its cable networks and premium pay television services and the production and licensing of television programming to broadcast and cable networks and premium pay television services. In part as a result of these changes, over the past few years, the number of subscribers to multichannel video services provided by traditional affiliates (“traditional MVPD services”) in the U.S. has declined each year and the U.S. television industry has experienced declines in ratings for programming, which have negatively affected subscription and advertising revenues. Developments in technology and new content delivery products and services have also led to an increasing amount of video content that is available through OTT services and consumers spending an increased amount of time viewing such content, as well as changes in consumers’ expectations regarding the availability of video content, their willingness to pay for access to or ownership of such content, their perception of what quality entertainment is and how much it should cost, and their 

The Company may incur significant costs to implement its strategy and initiatives, and if they are not successful, the Company’s competitive position, businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

The popularity of content is difficult to predict and can change rapidly, and low public acceptance of the Company’s content could adversely affect its results of operations. Examples include the popularity, quality and amount of competing content (including, in addition to traditional competitors in media and entertainment, locally-produced content internationally and content available on OTT services, some of which have large and growing subscriber/user bases and are significantly increasing their programming investments), the availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities, the Company’s ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, and the Company’s ability to successfully anticipate (and timely adapt its content to) changes in consumer tastes in the many countries and territories in which the Company operates. Low public acceptance of the Company’s content could adversely affect its results of operations. 

If a new “event” film fails to achieve commercial success at the global box office, it would also limit the Company’s ability to create a new theatrical franchise based on the film or characters featured in the film. The failure to develop successful new theatrical franchises could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 

Low ratings for television programming produced by the Company may lead to the cancellation of a program and can negatively affect future license fees for the cancelled program. If the Company decides to no longer air programming due to low ratings or other factors, the Company could incur significant programming impairments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in a given period. 

The Company depends on agreements with affiliates for the distribution of the Company’s cable networks and premium pay television services and certain of its OTT services. Factors that may make it more difficult for the Company to secure favorable terms during renewal negotiations with traditional affiliates include the Company’s efforts to capitalize on new growth opportunities outside the traditional TV ecosystem and the consolidation of traditional affiliates in the U.S. and growth of large multi-territory distribution companies 

 internationally, which increases their scale and negotiating power. The inability to renew one or more of the Company’s larger affiliate arrangements would reduce the number of households that have access to Turner’s cable networks and result in lower ratings for programming, which could make those networks less attractive to advertisers and result in lower growth or a decline in advertising revenues. 

If the rate of decline in the number of subscribers to traditional MVPD services increases or these subscribers shift to other services or bundles that do not include the Company’s cable networks and premium pay television services, the Company’s subscription revenues could be negatively affected. If traditional MVPD service offerings are not attractive to consumers due to pricing, increased competition from OTT services, increased dissatisfaction with the quality of traditional MVPD services, worse economic conditions or other factors, more consumers may (i) cancel their traditional MVPD service subscriptions or choose not to subscribe to traditional MVPD services, (ii) cancel their subscriptions to premium pay television services, (iii) elect to subscribe to lower-priced OTT services or (iv) elect to subscribe to smaller bundles of networks offered by traditional affiliates or to virtual MVPD services, which may not include HBO, Cinemax or some (or any) of Turner’s cable networks. 

A decrease in demand for the television programming produced by Warner Bros. or changes in the terms for licensed programming could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and results of operations. The following factors could increase the likelihood of a decline in such demand in the U.S.: (i) networks favoring programming from their in-house and affiliated television production studios over Warner Bros.’ programming, in part because ownership of the programming enables the networks to control, manage and monetize the programming in subsequent domestic and international distribution windows; (ii) emerging technologies and alternative viewing options that could reduce the lifetime value of television programming; (iii) consolidation among television networks, OTT services and/or television station groups, thereby reducing the number of buyers for Warner Bros.’ programming; (iv) OTT services shifting from primarily distributing programming produced by third parties to developing and distributing original programming produced by their in-house or affiliated production studios; and (v) a significant decline in viewing of content on television networks due to a shift toward viewing of content on other platforms and/or toward viewing of shorter-form video content, including on social media platforms. If there is a decline in such demand, it could decrease the overall scale of Warner Bros.’ television production business and reduce the aggregate license fees for its television programming. 

An increase in the costs to acquire or produce popular programming could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. 

 and services continues to increase, the Company may not be able to acquire popular programming or to acquire it at a cost-effective price. If Home Box Office or Turner commits to straight-to-series orders and those series do not meet anticipated production or quality standards or are otherwise not accepted by audiences, revisions to the programming may be necessary, which could increase production costs. Increased competition has also forced some networks and OTT services to commit to straight-to-series orders for programming instead of a pilot order. The increased financial commitment for a straight-to-series order also could increase the risks associated with such an order. 

The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if there are further declines in television advertising spending, which could be caused by a number of factors. See “The Company must respond successfully to ongoing changes in the U.S. television industry and consumer viewing patterns to remain competitive.” The advantages of digital advertising and the increased amount of consumer time spent online and on mobile activities have resulted in advertisers shifting more of their advertising budgets away from traditional television advertising to digital advertising, and Google and Facebook, with their large user bases, high consumer engagement and ability to use their data to target consumers, track consumer behavior and measure consumer responsiveness to advertising, have captured a significant and growing portion of digital advertising expenditures. 

further shifts in consumer behavior patterns, including consumers spending even more time online and on mobile activities; 

further declines in the number of traditional MVPD service subscribers; 

increased viewership of television programming on demand on a time-delayed basis (to the extent it either does not contain advertising or such viewing is not measured for audience delivery purposes) and the increased use of DVRs to skip television advertisements; and 

declining audience ratings for television programming. 

If ratings decline significantly, Turner’s cable networks generally will be required to provide additional advertising time to advertisers to reach agreed-on audience delivery thresholds. As described above in “Item 1. Business — Turner,” Turner is engaged in a variety of efforts to make advertising on its networks more valuable to advertisers and improve the consumer experience; however, these efforts may not be successful or may take several years to become successful. 

Additional factors that could negatively impact television advertising revenues include: 

a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general; 

increasing audience fragmentation caused by increased availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities; 

pressure from public interest groups to reduce or eliminate advertising of certain products on television; 

new laws and regulations that prohibit or restrict certain types of advertisements; and 

natural disasters, extreme weather, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities resulting in uninterrupted news coverage of such events that disrupts regular television programming. 

The Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by shifts in home entertainment consumption patterns. Although digital sales represent an increasing share of total sales of film and television content and, with greater per-unit profitability, have helped offset some of the declines in physical sales of content, digital sales may never generate aggregate profits that equal or exceed the peak profits generated by physical sales in prior years or it may take several years for the increased profits from higher-margin digital sales to fully offset the decrease in lower-margin physical sales and rentals. 

If the Company fails to compete successfully against alternative sources of entertainment and news, there may be an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Moreover, the environment in which the Company competes is becoming more challenging with the shifts in consumer viewing patterns, increased competition from OTT services and due to companies, in particular technology companies, expanding into the production of film and television programming. 

The global economy continues to be volatile, with slower economic growth in some large economies such as China, India and Brazil and economic uncertainties arising from governmental actions in some countries such as Russia and Venezuela. The full impact of these events is unknown, but likely will include changes in international trade policies. 

Consumer spending in these regions and countries may be further negatively impacted by governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures or initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, international trade, taxation and other economic drivers. 

Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to refinance outstanding indebtedness and obtain new financing. The inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under agreements with the Company and lead to negative effects on the Company, including business disruptions, decreased revenues, increases in bad debt expenses and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk to the Company with respect to the performance of its feature films. 

The Company faces risks relating to conducting business internationally that could adversely affect its businesses and operating results. There are also risks inherent in international business operations, including: 

issues related to integrating and managing international operations and investments; 

lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property in some countries; 

currency exchange restrictions, export controls and currency devaluation risks in some foreign countries; 

the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; 

the existence in some countries of regulatory or other restrictions that impede the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in such countries; 

the existence of quotas and other content-related limitations or restrictions (e.g., government censorship); 

restrictions on television advertising, marketing and network packaging; 

issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations; 

higher than anticipated costs of entry; 

the presence of corruption in certain countries; 

the absence of good diplomatic relations between the U.S. and certain countries; and 

the potential for government appropriation of the Company’s assets. 

One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations or investments and its operating results. 

Some of the Company’s operations are conducted in foreign currencies, and the value of these currencies fluctuates in relation to the U.S. dollar. 

The risks relating to piracy continue to increase as technological developments have made it easier to access, reproduce, distribute and store high-quality unauthorized copies of content, such as increased broadband Internet speeds and penetration rates and increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission. The Company continues to be negatively affected by piracy, and an increase in the piracy of the Company’s content, products and other intellectual property could reduce the revenues the Company earns from the legitimate sale, licensing and distribution of its content, products and other intellectual property. 

The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames and other proprietary rights, as well as contractual arrangements, including licenses, to establish, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights. Companies that license the Company’s intellectual property also may take actions that diminish the value of the Company’s intellectual property or harm the Company’s reputation. 

The Company’s intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of some business opportunities, such as new distribution platforms. 

Further, the steps the Company takes to protect its intellectual property may not adequately protect its rights or prevent others from infringing or misappropriating its intellectual property rights. 

The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims that it infringed intellectual property rights of others, which could require the Company to change its business practices. 

The Company’s businesses are subject to labor interruption. The Company and some of its suppliers and business partners retain the services of writers, directors, actors, announcers, athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of its television programming, feature films and games who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company could also incur higher costs from such actions, new collective bargaining agreements or the renewal of collective bargaining agreements on less favorable terms. Union or labor disputes or player lock-outs relating to certain professional sports leagues may preclude the Company from producing and telecasting scheduled games or events and could negatively impact the Company’s promotional and marketing opportunities. 

Shutdowns or service disruptions of information systems or networks at the Company or vendors that provide information systems, networks or other services to the Company pose increasing risks. Shutdowns or disruption from such events could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data, release or threatened release of data publicly, misuse or threatened misuse of data, and damage to equipment and data. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company’s disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient to cover everything that could happen. 

The Company is also subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of data maintained in the information systems and networks of the Company or its vendors, including sensitive or confidential personnel, customer or vendor data, business information or other sensitive or confidential information 

The number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches have increased in recent years and, as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. In addition, if a material breach of its information systems occurs, the Company could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to review data and systems to determine the extent of any breach, repair or replace information systems or networks or to comply with notification requirements. The Company also could be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation in the event of a breach of the information systems of the Company or its vendors. 

Despite the Company’s efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated entirely. Although the Company develops and maintains information security practices and systems designed to prevent these events from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and tactics to overcome information security measures become more sophisticated. 

Shutdowns of satellites and transmitter facilities or service disruptions pose significant risks to the Company’s operations. Such disruptions may be caused by power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming, or other similar events. If a satellite is not able to transmit the Company’s programming, the Company may not be able to secure an alternative communication satellite in a timely manner, because there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. 

See Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters,” for a description of significant U.S. federal, state, local and international laws, regulations, regulatory agency inquiries, rulemaking proceedings and other developments affecting the Company and its businesses. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business practices. Compliance with new laws or regulations also could cause the Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner that is adverse to its businesses. 

If the separation of any of Time Inc., AOL Inc. (“AOL”) or Time Warner Cable Inc. (“TWC”) is determined to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and/or Time Warner’s shareholders who received shares of Time Inc., AOL or TWC (as applicable) in connection with the respective spin-off of those companies could incur significant income tax liabilities. 

 2009, Time Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the applicable separation transaction should not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its shareholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares in such transaction. Furthermore, opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could determine that one or more of the separation transactions should be treated as a taxable transaction. Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from Time Inc., AOL and TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of the applicable separation transaction to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by the former subsidiary or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by the former subsidiary to be true. 

The proposed acquisition of Time Warner by AT&T may cause disruption in Time Warner’s business. The Merger Agreement generally requires the Company to operate its business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the proposed merger and restricts the Company, without AT&T’s consent, from taking certain specified actions until the merger is completed. 

In connection with the pending merger, current and prospective employees of Time Warner have experienced or may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the merger, which may materially adversely affect the ability of Time Warner to attract and retain key personnel while the merger is pending. 

Parties with which the Company has business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and may delay or defer certain business decisions, seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their existing business relationships with the Company. 

The diversion of these individuals’ attention from day-to-day business concerns could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. 

The Company expects to incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the litigation. The litigation will require significant time commitments by certain members of management and key personnel, and the diversion of their attention from day-to-day business operations and the litigation-related costs could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. 

The merger cannot be completed until the conditions to closing are satisfied or (if permissible under applicable law) waived, including the receipt of required antitrust and other regulatory approvals. Failure to complete the merger in a timely manner or at all could negatively impact the market price of the Time Warner common stock, as well as the Company’s future business and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Additionally, if the merger is not consummated in a timely manner or at all, Time Warner’s ongoing business may be adversely affected as follows: 

Time Warner may experience negative reactions from financial markets and the stock price could decline; 

management’s focus on completing the merger and planning for the integration of Time Warner and AT&T over a significant time period would have limited its ability to pursue other opportunities, including alternative transactions to the merger, that could have been beneficial to Time Warner; 

Time Warner may not realize the expected benefits from the merger (or its ability to realize those benefits may be delayed), which may reduce or slow its efforts to innovate new offerings and impair its ability to compete in the rapidly-changing industries in which its businesses operate, particularly with respect to more targeted advertising offerings, new forms of content and new platforms for the delivery of video content directly to consumers, and with large technology companies, some of which have significant competitive advantages due to their large user bases, high consumer engagement and access to consumer data, that have become direct competitors; 

Time Warner may experience negative reactions from employees, customers, suppliers or other third parties; and 

the costs of pursuing the merger may be higher than anticipated and would be borne entirely by Time Warner. 

If the merger with AT&T is not completed, there can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect Time Warner’s stock price, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

The obligations of AT&T and Time Warner to complete the merger are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including: (i) adoption of the Merger Agreement by Time Warner shareholders (which has been obtained), (ii) approval for the listing on the NYSE of the shares of AT&T common stock to be issued in the merger, upon official notice of issuance, (iii) expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (iv) if required in connection with the consummation of the merger, receipt of any necessary consents from the FCC, (v) receipt of consents from specified foreign regulators, (vi) if required in connection with the merger, receipt of consents from state public utility commissions, (vii) absence of any applicable law or order that prohibits completion of the merger, (viii) accuracy of the representations and warranties made in the Merger Agreement by the other party, subject to certain materiality qualifications, and (ix) performance in all material respects by the other party of the material obligations required to be performed by it at or prior to completion of the merger. Further, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the merger will be satisfied or, where possible, waived or that the merger will be completed. 

In order to complete the merger, AT&T and Time Warner must obtain certain governmental approvals, and if such approvals are not granted or are granted with conditions, completion of the merger may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced. As a condition to approving the merger or 

 related transactions, these governmental authorities may impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of AT&T’s business after completion of the merger. 

The termination date in the Merger Agreement is April 22, 2018, as extended by the parties. Although Time Warner and AT&T believe that their case is strong under the law and that the Court will reject the DOJ’s challenge to the merger, there can be no assurance that: 

a decision will be rendered in the DOJ action by June 21, 2018; 

Time Warner and AT&T will prevail in the action after trial or upon appeal (or will be able to negotiate an acceptable settlement with the DOJ); or 

AT&T and Time Warner will agree to extend their mutual waiver of the right to terminate the Merger Agreement for a further period of time if the merger has not been completed by June 21, 2018. 

In addition, even if Time Warner and AT&T prevail in the DOJ lawsuit or reach a settlement with the DOJ, it may have the effect of further delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, or otherwise adversely affecting, including to a material extent, AT&T’s businesses and results of operations after completion of the merger. 