The Company classifies its businesses into the following three reportable segments: 

Turner, consisting principally of cable networks and digital media properties; 

Home Box Office, consisting principally of premium pay television and OTT services (as defined below) domestically and premium pay, basic tier television and OTT services internationally; and 

Warner Bros., consisting principally of television, feature film, home video and game production and distribution. 

For more information about the Company’s reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Overview.” 

As used in this report, the term “affiliates” refers to distributors that deliver packages of networks to their subscribers, including cable system operators, satellite service distributors and telephone companies (“traditional affiliates”) and virtual multichannel video programming distributors (“virtual MVPDs”); and the term “OTT services” refers to services that deliver video content to consumers over the Internet and includes subscription video-on-demand (“SVOD”) services and advertising-supported VOD services such as social media platforms and user-generated content digital platforms, but does not include virtual MVPDs. 

Time Warner shareholders adopted the Merger Agreement at a special meeting of shareholders held on February 15, 2017. On October 22, 2016, Time Warner entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”), West Merger Sub, Inc. and West Merger Sub II, LLC, pursuant to which Time Warner will combine with AT&T in a stock-and-cash transaction. If the Average Stock Price is above $41.349, Time Warner shareholders will receive 1.300 AT&T shares for each share of Time Warner common stock. 

The merger is conditioned on the receipt of certain antitrust and other required regulatory consents. On December 21, 2017, each of the parties to the Merger Agreement waived, until June 21, 2018, its right to terminate the Merger Agreement due to a failure to complete the merger contemplated thereunder by April 22, 2018. 

Time Warner’s businesses work together to leverage their strong brands, distinctive intellectual property and global scale to produce and distribute content that resonates deeply with consumers. Accordingly, the Company is focused on both strengthening its position within the traditional TV ecosystem and pursuing growth opportunities outside the ecosystem, including increasing the content and services offered directly to consumers. 

The Company is continuing to invest in high-quality distinctive programming, make more of its content available on-demand and on a growing variety of devices and invest in technology to enhance the consumer experience. 

The Company is also capitalizing on growth opportunities outside the traditional TV ecosystem by increasing its investments in new digital products and technologies, including launching OTT services, as well as investing in and obtaining distribution of its content through other companies’ OTT services and virtual MVPD services. 

The Company expects the merger will accelerate the Company’s efforts to spur innovation in the media industry and improve the consumer experience in pay television bundles by creating compelling consumer offerings and developing more targeted advertising offerings, and it will accelerate, and increase the likelihood of success of, Time Warner’s strategy to distribute content through other online and mobile services, including those offered directly to consumers. 

At December 31, 2017, the Company had a total of approximately 26,000 employees. 

For convenience, the terms the “Company,” “Time Warner” and the “Registrant” are used in this report to refer to both the parent company alone and collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which its various businesses are conducted, unless the context requires otherwise. 

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors 

Time Warner’s actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements in this report due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of Time Warner’s businesses. For more detailed information about these factors and risk factors with respect to the Company’s operations, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” 

The Company is providing the address to its website solely for the information of investors. 

Turner creates and programs branded news, entertainment, sports and kids multi-platform content for consumers around the world. Turner operates more than 180 channels globally. 

Turner is also pursuing non-traditional distribution options for its programming, including launching SVOD services and making some of its programming available on other companies’ OTT services. 

Turner’s digital properties consist of its own digital properties and those it manages and/or operates for sports leagues where Turner holds the related programming rights. Turner’s other digital properties include its apps for CNN, TBS, TNT, Adult Swim and Cartoon Network, which enable viewers who subscribe to those networks through an affiliate to view the network programming live and on demand through the apps, as well as tntdrama.com, TBS.com, adultswim.com and cartoonnetwork.com. 

It is strengthening the programming on its cable networks and repositioning some of its brands, airing higher quality marquee original series in addition to premium sports programming and film franchises. In addition, in 2017, Turner, together with Twenty-First Century Fox and Viacom, launched OpenAP, a venture designed to create consistency in defining audience targets across television networks and independent reporting using verification of advanced audience metrics by an unaffiliated third party. As part of its efforts to deliver more value to advertisers and improve the consumer experience, Turner is engaged in a number of efforts, including (i) continuing to support industry efforts to improve the measurement of viewing and audience engagement across all platforms, (ii) working with affiliates to increase the use of technology that inserts advertising in on-demand streams of programming that is viewed on a time-delayed basis on DVRs and affiliates’ and networks’ VOD offerings, (iii) continuing to develop data-driven advertising products and increasing the amount of advertising inventory sold through these products, (iv) introducing native advertisements, which present content featuring characters from the associated programming who promote an advertiser’s product or service, and (v) reducing the amount of advertising on select programming on truTV and TNT. 

iStreamPlanet provides services for several of Turner’s digital properties and those Turner manages and/or operates for sports leagues, including the March Madness Live app and the NBA League Pass property. To improve its digital streaming capabilities, in 2015, Turner acquired a majority ownership interest in iStreamPlanet Co., LLC (“iStreamPlanet”), a provider of streaming and cloud-based video and technology services specializing in streaming large scale, live sporting events. 

Turner is also increasingly investing in programming for its networks that will engage audiences across multiple platforms. 

Turner is continuing to increase its scale and strengthen its competitive position internationally through strategic regional channel launches, partnerships and acquisitions in key territories, and it is placing greater emphasis on creating and acquiring local programming to strengthen its brands internationally. 

In addition, Turner has made significant investments in premium sports programming and film franchises that air on its entertainment networks, including licensing the cable network television rights to popular films from franchises such as Warner Bros.’ franchise films based on DC Entertainment characters and the Star Wars, Marvel Comics and The Hunger Games film franchises, all of which will air exclusively on TBS and TNT during specified windows. As described above, Turner has reduced the advertising loads for certain programs on truTV and TNT. 

As of December 2017, TNT reached 90.4 million domestic television households as reported by Nielsen Media Research (“Nielsen”). For the 2017-2018 season, TNT’s syndicated series include Bones, Law & Order and Supernatural. 

As of December 2017, TBS reached 91.5 million domestic television households as reported by Nielsen. Syndicated series for the 2017-2018 season include 2 Broke Girls, The Big Bang Theory, Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Family Guy, Friends, New Girl and Seinfeld. TBS is also the home of the late night talk shows Conan and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. 

Adult Swim is an evening and overnight block of programming airing on Turner’s Cartoon Network. 

 season, Adult Swim’s original series include Aqua Teen Hunger Force, Apollo Gauntlet, Infomercials, The Jellies!, Mike Tyson Mysteries, Rick & Morty, Robot Chicken and Squidbillies. 

For the 2017-2018 season, truTV’s returning original series include Adam Ruins Everything, Billy on the Street, The Carbonaro Effect, Hack My Life, Impractical Jokers, Rachel Dratch’s Late Night Snack, Talk Show the Game Show, Those Who Can’t and Upscale with Prentice Penny, and its new original series include At Home with Amy Sedaris, The Chris Gethard Show, I’m Sorry, Laff Mobb’s Laff Tracks and You Can Do Better. 

Turner Classic Movies also offers interviews, original documentaries, specials and regular programming events that include “The Essentials,” “31 Days of Oscar” and “Summer Under the Stars.” 

Turner also operates several regional entertainment networks in Europe and the Middle East, including TCM, TNT, TNT Comedy, TNT Serie, TNT Film, truTV and Warner TV. In Asia, Turner operates several regional entertainment networks, including Oh!K, TCM and Warner TV in Hong Kong, HBO South Asia and Warner TV in India, Oh!K, TCM, truTV and Warner TV in Indonesia and Singapore, and MondoTV and Tabi Channel in Japan. 

Turner Sports produces award-winning sports programming and content for Turner’s TNT, TBS and truTV networks and related digital properties. 

Turner’s sports programming features licensed programming from the National Basketball Association (“NBA”) through the 2024-2025 season, Major League Baseball (“MLB”) through 2021, The National Collegiate Athletic Association (the “NCAA”) for the Men’s Division I Basketball Tournament through 2032, and the Professional Golfers’ Association (“PGA”) through 2019. The NCAA Men’s Division I Basketball Tournament games air on the TNT, TBS and truTV networks and on the CBS network under an agreement among Turner, CBS Broadcasting, Inc. and the NCAA. Turner also has partnered with WME|IMG to form ELEAGUE, a multiplayer competitive videogaming league. Live coverage of ELEAGUE gaming events and a weekly showcase program air on TBS, and live coverage of the events and related on-demand programming are also available through the Twitch OTT platform. 

Live matches will be available on TBS, TNT and/or TruTV and through a new premium sports SVOD service Turner plans to launch in 2018. 

 Turner and Fox Sports Latin America acquired the rights to air matches of Argentina’s top soccer league, the Primera División, on their respective networks in Argentina. 

Bleacher Report is a leading digital sports property that provides team-specific sports content and real-time event coverage and provides Turner with cross-platform programming and marketing opportunities. 

Cartoon Network and Boomerang offer original, acquired and classic animated and live-action entertainment aimed at kids in the U.S. and international territories. Warner Bros. is producing original animated programming based on Warner Bros. and DC Entertainment characters and brands for Cartoon Network, Boomerang and the Boomerang-branded SVOD service that Turner and Warner Bros. launched in April 2017 and jointly manage. In addition, in 2017, Turner and Warner Bros. began jointly managing the operations of the Boomerang network. 

Cartoon Network offers original and syndicated animated and live-action series and motion pictures for youth and families. For the 2017-2018 season, Cartoon Network’s original animated series include Warner Bros.’ Justice League Action, Teen Titans Go! 

Boomerang offers new original content from Warner Bros. as well as classic animated entertainment from the Warner Bros., Hanna-Barbera, MGM and Cartoon Network libraries, such as Bunnicula, New Looney Tunes and The Tom and Jerry Show. 

Turner’s kids business is a key part of its international operations, and Cartoon Network is the number one kids network in several territories outside the U.S., including Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, South Africa and the Philippines. 

CNN is the original cable television news service. As of December 2017, CNN reached 91.4 million domestic television households as reported by Nielsen. 

For the 2017-2018 season, CNN is airing films and mini-series including Kennedys: an American Dynasty, The Radical Story of Patty Hearst, ELIÁN, JEREMIAH TOWER: The Last Magnificent, Legion of Brothers and The Nineties. CNN is also focused on expanding its leading digital presence by developing mobile products, increasing the amount of original short form video content it offers through digital platforms, including through its independent storytelling brand Great Big Story, and growing its digital presence in several premium content brand extensions, including personal finance (CNN Money), political news (CNN Politics) travel (CNN Travel) and technology (CNN Tech). 

CNN Worldwide is a portfolio of more than 20 news and information services across cable, satellite, radio, wireless devices and the Internet in more than 200 countries and territories as of December 31, 2017. 

For the 2017-2018 season, HLN’s programs include Across America with Carol Costello, Death Row Stories, Inside with Chris Cuomo, MichaeLA, Morning Express with Robin Meade, On the Story with Erica Hill and Crime & Justice with Ashleigh Banfield, as well as an original five-part series, Unmasking a Killer. 

Turner generates revenues principally from licensing programming to affiliates that have contracted to receive and distribute the programming to subscribers, the sale of advertising on its networks and the digital properties it owns or manages for other companies, and the license of its original programming and its brands and characters for consumer products and other business ventures. Turner also generates revenues from licensing select programming to other companies’ SVOD services. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally sold at a fixed rate for the unit of time sold, determined by the time of day and network. 

Home Box Office owns and operates leading multichannel premium pay television services, HBO and Cinemax. 

In the U.S., Home Box Office’s programming and services are distributed in several different ways. 

Home Box Office also sells its original programming in both physical and digital formats. 

Internationally, Home Box Office tailors the distribution of its programming for each territory using one or more of the following distribution models: premium pay and basic tier television services distributed by traditional affiliates, licensing of programming to third-party providers, OTT services distributed by third parties and direct-to-consumer OTT services. 

Home Box Office continues to invest in high-quality original programming for HBO and Cinemax. 

The quality and diversity of HBO’s original programming differentiates HBO from other premium pay television services, basic television networks and OTT services, while enhancing the value of the HBO brand both domestically and internationally. 

Home Box Office has also worked closely with Warner Bros. on original programming such as The Leftovers and Westworld. In early 2018, Home Box Office premiered Mosaic, a limited series by Steven Soderbergh, and Here and Now (starring Holly Hunter and created by Alan Ball) and plans to premiere additional new series, including Barry (starring Bill Hader) and Succession (executive produced by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay) later in 2018. 

In 2017, Home Box Office also won three George Foster Peabody Awards, five Sports Emmy Awards and five News & Documentary Emmy Awards. 

In 2018, Cinemax relaunched the series Strike Back with a new cast and plans to premiere additional limited series, including Rellik and C.B. 

Domestically, a significant portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists of uncut and uncensored feature films, including recently released feature films. 

Home Box Office also has agreements to license older films with Fox, Universal, Warner Bros. and a number of other major studios and independent distributors. 

In addition to films, Home Box Office’s international content offerings may feature local-language original programming and/or U.S. television programming produced by other production studios. 

Home Box Office’s Businesses and Revenues 

Domestic Premium Pay Television and OTT Services 

At December 31, 2017, Home Box Office had approximately 54 million domestic subscribers, including subscribers to HBO NOW and through Home Box Office’s digital distribution partners, and HBO was the most widely distributed domestic multi-channel premium pay television service. 

Home Box Office has entered into arrangements with a number of digital distributors to distribute HBO NOW and/or provide their subscribers access to the HBO and Cinemax services and programming on digital platforms and devices, and Home Box Office is continuing to expand the number of digital distribution partners. Marketing and promotional activities intended to retain existing subscribers and acquire new subscribers may also impact revenue earned. 

Nearly all seasons of HBO’s and Cinemax’s original series, feature films, HBO mini-series and films, sports programming, documentaries, comedy and music specials, bonus features and behind-the-scenes extras are available on HBO NOW, HBO GO or MAX GO, as applicable, and through Home Box Office’s digital distribution partners. 

International Premium Pay, Basic Tier Television and OTT Services 

In Europe and Asia, Home Box Office operates through consolidated, wholly-owned subsidiaries. HBO GO was available to HBO premium pay television subscribers and/or OTT service subscribers in over 50 countries and territories at December 31, 2017, and Home Box Office plans to make HBO GO available in additional countries and territories in 2018. 

Internationally, Home Box Office generates a significant portion of its revenues from licensing its programming to affiliates. 

Home Box Office operates OTT services in 18 countries throughout Europe, including 13 countries in Central Europe, four countries in the Nordic region, and Spain. 

Home Box Office licenses both individual programs and packages of programs to television networks and OTT services in over 150 countries, including arrangements under which it licenses programming to television networks that are branded as the “Home of HBO” in countries such as the U.K., Australia, France, Germany and Israel and as “HBO Canada” in Canada. 

In addition, Home Box Office has also licensed some of its original programming, such as Sex and the City, as well as Everybody Loves Raymond, which was produced by Home Box Office but originally aired on broadcast television, to domestic basic cable networks and local television stations. 

Warner Bros. is the largest television and film studio in the world based on total television and film revenues as of December 31, 2017. Warner Bros.’ businesses benefit from a shared infrastructure, including shared production, distribution, marketing and administrative functions and resources. 

Warner Bros. has at least four series on each of the five broadcast networks. Overall, Warner Bros. is producing 70 television series in the U.S. for the 2017-2018 television season. Over the past several years, Warner Bros. has expanded and diversified the genres and types of television programming it produces as well as the buyers of its programming domestically. 

Warner Bros. has been the #1 or #2 film studio in domestic box office receipts for eight of the past 10 years and the #1 or #2 film studio in global box office receipts for nine of the past 10 years. 

Warner Bros. plans to expand its production of games for consoles and mobile devices using its portfolio of game production studios and strong global brands and franchises. 

Warner Bros. has led the U.S. home entertainment industry in sales of home entertainment products for more 

At December 31, 2017, Warner Bros.’ vast content library consists of more than 80,000 hours of programming, including over 7,000 feature films and 5,000 television programs comprised of tens of thousands of individual episodes. 

Warner Bros.’ portfolio of leading brands includes brands licensed from DC Entertainment (DC Comics, Vertigo and MAD Magazine), as well as the Harry Potter, Looney Tunes and Hanna-Barbera brands. 

and a sequel to Wonder Woman in 2019. Warner Bros. released three films based on DC Entertainment characters in 2017 (Justice League, The LEGO Batman Movie and Wonder Woman) and plans to release several additional films based on DC Entertainment characters, including Aquaman and Teen Titans GO! Warner Bros. is also focused on creating new global film franchises and plans to release Ready Player One in 2018 and The Six Billion Dollar Man in 2019. 

In television, nine live-action series based on DC Entertainment characters (Arrow, Black Lightning, DC’s Legends of Tomorrow, The Flash, iZombie, Krypton, Lucifer, Gotham and Supergirl) are airing on broadcast and cable television during the 2017-2018 television season. 

The division also manages Warner Bros.’ investments in Uninterrupted, a partnership with LeBron James and Turner Sports focused on developing and distributing an original production slate of sports- and athlete-focused programming across multiple platforms, and Ellen Digital Ventures, a partnership with Ellen DeGeneres focused on digital content and social games. In addition, Warner Bros. Digital Networks is building a premium digital production company (including its Stage 13 digital content brand) aimed at reaching millennial audiences on new platforms through distinctive series. Machinima (acquired by Warner Bros. in 2016), a global aggregator of gaming and related content aimed at audiences that play Warner Bros.’ games and watch its films and television programming, is also part of the division. 

Warner Bros. is focused on maintaining its leadership position in producing primetime series for the U.S. broadcast networks (including The CW broadcast network (“The CW”)) while increasing production of high-quality original series for basic cable networks (including TNT and TBS, which are airing four Warner Bros. series for the 2017-2018 television season), premium pay television services (including HBO) and OTT services (including Warner Bros.’ and Turner’s Boomerang-branded SVOD service). Warner Bros. is a leader in the global television production and distribution business. 

Warner Bros. and Turner are also jointly producing original animated programming for those networks and the Boomerang-branded SVOD service. In addition, in 2017, Warner Bros. and Turner began jointly managing the operations of Turner’s Boomerang network. 

Warner Bros. produces and distributes its television programming for initial airing on broadcast and basic cable television networks, premium pay television and OTT services and local television stations in the U.S. Warner Bros. also produces and distributes short-form live-action series and animated programming for initial viewing on digital platforms. 

These licenses enable Warner Bros. to generate significant revenues from hit television series for years beyond their initial airing on television. 

Warner Bros. also licenses its feature films to premium pay television services (including HBO), broadcast and cable networks and OTT services starting approximately eight to nine months following their theatrical release. 

Warner Bros. licenses rights to exhibit feature films to SVOD services in China, and feature films and original television series to HOOQ, an SVOD service operating in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, which is owned by Warner Bros., Singtel Telecommunications Limited and Sony Pictures Television. 

As the worldwide demand for locally produced, local-language programming increases, Warner Bros. is focused on expanding its international local-language production business. 

The revenues generated by Warner Bros.’ television business consist of (1) fees for the initial broadcast of Warner Bros.’ television programming on U.S. broadcast and cable television networks and premium pay television and OTT services, (2) fees for the airing or other distribution of its television programming after its initial broadcast in secondary U.S. distribution channels (such as basic cable networks, local television stations and OTT services), (3) fees for the international distribution of Warner Bros.’ television programming for free-to-air television, basic tier television services, premium pay television services and OTT services, and (4) revenues from the sale of the television programming of Warner Bros. and other companies in physical and digital formats. 

Warner Bros. also enters into arrangements with others to co-produce and co-finance feature films. Warner Bros. produces and distributes a wide-ranging slate of films, and it is focused on building its film slate around its strongest franchises with global appeal. 

In January 2018, Warner Bros. released Paddington 2 and 12 Strong and, in February 2018, released The 15:17 to Paris for distribution in the U.S. Warner Bros. plans to release an additional 17 films during 2018 for distribution in the U.S., including Aquaman, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, The Nun, Ocean’s 8, Rampage, Ready Player One, Teen Titans GO! Of the films released during 2017, eight were released in 3D format and seven were formatted for viewing on IMAX screens. 

In 2017, Warner Bros. released internationally 19 English-language films and 34 local-language films that it either produced itself or acquired from other companies. 

After the theatrical exhibition of its feature films, Warner Bros. releases them both domestically and internationally for distribution in various time periods through a variety of distribution channels, including retail stores, online and digital 

 retailers; premium pay television services; broadcast and basic cable networks; OTT services and other exhibitors such as airlines and hotels. Feature films are typically released for rental in physical formats seven days later. 

Warner Bros. monetizes its distribution and marketing operations by distributing films that other companies wholly finance and produce, and it has an exclusive distribution arrangement with Alcon Entertainment. Warner Bros. also enters into co-financing arrangements with other studios. 

The revenues generated by Warner Bros.’ feature film business primarily consist of (1) rental fees paid by theaters for the theatrical exhibition of feature films produced (or co-produced) and/or distributed by Warner Bros., (2) licensing fees paid by television networks, premium pay television services and OTT services for the exhibition of feature films produced or co-produced by Warner Bros. and (3) revenues from the distribution of Warner Bros.’ and other companies’ feature films in physical and digital formats. 

Warner Bros. continues to be a leader in the home entertainment industry, and its significant home entertainment releases during 2017 included The Accountant, Annabelle: Creation, Dunkirk, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, It, Kong: Skull Island, The LEGO Batman Movie and Wonder Woman. 

Consumer spending on film and television content in higher margin digital formats represents an increasing share of total home entertainment consumer spending in recent years, but has not meaningfully offset declines in consumer spending on home entertainment product in physical formats. 

For example, in 2017, Warner Bros. joined four other major film studios to launch the Movies Anywhere service in the U.S., which enables consumers to access digital copies of their films through a variety of digital platforms. Warner Bros. licenses its newly released feature films as well as films from its library and its television content to EST and transactional VOD services for viewing online and on mobile platforms in the U.S. and internationally. 

Although consumer spending on home entertainment product in physical formats has declined in recent years, the distribution of home entertainment product in physical formats still generates significant revenues for Warner Bros. 

 home entertainment product it distributes in physical formats includes its own feature films and television content, including library content, as well as content acquired from others. 

Its games are based on intellectual property owned or licensed by Warner Bros. (including DC Entertainment properties, Harry Potter and Mortal Kombat). In 2017, Warner Bros. released 11 games, including Game of Thrones, Golf Clash, Injustice 2, LEGO Marvel Super Heroes 2 and Middle-earth: Shadow of War. Warner Bros. also licenses Warner Bros. and DC Entertainment properties for games to other companies. 

The Company also holds interests in companies that operate broadcast networks. 

Time Warner’s investment consists of (i) common stock, (ii) convertible preferred stock that has voting rights, (iii) convertible redeemable preferred shares that do not have voting rights and (iv) warrants to purchase common stock of CME. Time Warner also guarantees all of CME’s outstanding senior indebtedness and provides financing to CME under a revolving credit facility. 

The CW’s 2017-2018 schedule includes a 5-night, 10-hour primetime lineup of advertising-supported original programming such as The 100, Arrow, Black Lightning, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, DC’s Legends of Tomorrow, Dynasty, The Flash, iZombie, Jane the Virgin, Life Sentence, The Originals, Riverdale, Supergirl, Supernatural and Valor, as well as a three-hour block of advertising-supported programming on Saturday mornings. The CW’s programming is also available through an OTT service eight days after the full season of programming airs on The CW. Advertising-supported full episodes of The CW’s original series are also available on cwtv.com and through The CW’s apps for mobile devices and Internet-connected televisions. For the 2017-2018 season, Warner Bros. and CBS are producing 15 series for The CW, including six series based on DC Entertainment characters. The CW does not require any login or authentication of a cable subscription to stream its content. 

The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive industries, and the environment in which the Company competes has become more challenging over the past few years due to the shifts in consumer viewing patterns described above, increased competition from OTT services and the expansion by other companies, in particular technology companies, into 

Competition in these industries has intensified as leisure and entertainment options have proliferated and audience fragmentation has increased. The Company’s businesses compete for consumers’ entertainment and leisure time and spending with each other, as well as other forms of entertainment, including other television networks, premium pay television services, local over-the-air television stations, social media platforms and other OTT services, motion pictures, home entertainment products and services, games, print media, live events, radio broadcasts and other forms of news, information and entertainment, as well as pirated content. 

The Company’s competitive position is greatly affected by the quality of, and public response to, its content. The Company’s businesses compete with other production companies and studios for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary properties. 

The Company also faces competition for the licensing and distribution of its programming. The Company also faces competition from other television networks and premium pay television services for distribution and marketing of its television networks and premium pay and basic tier television services by affiliates. 

The Company’s advertising-supported television networks and digital properties compete for advertisers’ spending with advertising-supported OTT services, other networks and digital properties, print, radio, outdoor display and other media. 

The Company’s businesses also compete in their character and brand merchandising and other licensing activities with other licensors of characters and brands. 

The Company’s businesses are subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as the laws and regulations of other countries and international bodies such as the European Union (the “EU”), and these laws and regulations are subject to change, including due to regulatory reform measures. 

Time Warner is one of the world’s leading creators, owners and distributors of intellectual property. 

To protect the Company’s intellectual property, the Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent and trade secret laws and license agreements. 

In addition, a trademark registration may be cancelled or invalidated if challenged by others based on certain use requirements or other limited grounds. The Company also relies on laws that prohibit the circumvention of technological protection measures and trafficking in circumvention devices. In the U.S., the usual copyright term for authored works is the life of the author plus 70 years, and the copyright term for “works made for hire” is the shorter of 95 years from the first publication or 120 years from the date the work was created. 

Piracy, particularly of digital content, continues to present a threat to the Company’s revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. The Company vigorously pursues appropriate avenues to protect its intellectual property, including sending takedown notices in appropriate circumstances and pursuing litigation and referrals to law enforcement against websites that distribute or facilitate the unauthorized distribution of the Company’s content. 

In July 2015, the EC sent a Statement of Objections to a number of U.S. film studios, including Warner Bros., reflecting its preliminary view that such contractual provisions may violate EU competition rules prohibiting anti-competitive agreements. The investigation has focused on contractual restrictions that prevent broadcasters in one EU country from selling subscriptions in response to unsolicited requests from viewers in other EU countries. The outcomes of the ongoing EC investigation and legislative and regulatory proceedings in the EU are difficult to predict, and thus it is not possible to determine the impact they could have on the Company’s businesses. In January 2016, the EC held a hearing on the matter. Separately, in 2015, the EC published its Digital Single Market strategy, which includes a broad range of high-level proposals that are intended to promote access to online services and entertainment content across national borders within the EU to foster the creation of a single digital market in the EU. 

Regulation Relating to Data Privacy, Data Security and Cybersecurity 

For example, in the U.S., the Company is subject to: (1) the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”), which applies to certain of the Company’s websites, mobile apps and other online business activities and restricts the collection, maintenance and use of personal information regarding children; (2) the Privacy and Security Rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which imposes privacy and security requirements on the Company’s health 

 plans for its employees and on service providers under those plans; (3) the Video Privacy Protection Act, which restricts disclosure of video viewing information; (4) state statutes requiring data security controls and notice to individuals when personally identifiable information (“PII”) has been accessed or acquired in a data breach; and (5) privacy and security rules imposed by the payment card industry, as well as regulations designed to protect against identity theft and fraud in connection with the collection of credit and debit card payments from consumers. 

In the U.S., for example, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) frequently issues guidance that sets forth best practices for businesses to build privacy protections into their products and provide consumers greater control over the collection and use of their personal information. 

The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, for example, is intended to promote voluntary sharing of information regarding cybersecurity threats and defensive measures undertaken in response to those threats with the government and other businesses. 

For example, California law requires operators of commercial websites and online services (including mobile apps) to make disclosures about how the operator or other parties may collect PII about a consumer’s online activities, including in some cases disclosure of how the operator responds to Web browser “do not track” signals or other mechanisms that enable consumers to opt out of the collection of such information. 

The EC adopted a data directive in 1995 to protect the privacy rights of individuals within the European Union and the transfer of personal information outside the EU (the “Directive”). A replacement framework called the EU – U.S. Privacy Shield (the “Privacy Shield” framework), which replaces the Safe Harbor framework, was formally approved by the EC in July 2016. The Privacy Shield framework imposes greater obligations on U.S. companies to protect personal data transferred from the EU to the U.S. and requires the U.S. Department of Commerce and the FTC to carry out stricter monitoring and enforcement. data transfer requirements to be able to continue to operate its businesses. 

The GDPR is intended to support the Digital Single Market strategy within the EU by providing a single set of rules on data protection across the European Economic Area, while enabling individuals to better control their personal data. 

Regulation of Television Networks, Internet/Broadband Services, Programming and Advertising 

In the U.S., cable networks and premium pay television services, either directly or indirectly through their distribution partners, are subject to various 

 obligations under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and related regulations issued by the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”). 

The net neutrality regulations subject ISPs to the requirements of Title II of the Communications Act, including imposing limitations on unreasonable practices, obligations regarding customer privacy and protections for people with disabilities and authorize the FCC to investigate and act on consumer complaints. ISPs generally are permitted to engage in reasonable network management (other than paid prioritization) if the purpose of their actions is related to managing their network. However, in December 2017, under a new chairman, the FCC adopted a declaratory ruling, report, and order (the “2017 Order”) (the date on which it will be fully effective has not yet been determined) that reverses application of Title II to ISPs and eliminates most of the specific conduct restrictions on ISPs established through the 2015 Order. Petitions for review by the U.S. Supreme Court remain pending. In addition, members of Congress have introduced legislation that would set forth a new net neutrality regulatory framework and lawmakers in several states have introduced bills that would prohibit ISP actions to block or slow down sites or online services. 

The proposed rules would also prohibit contract provisions that restrict a programming provider’s ability to distribute its programming through alternative video distribution platforms, including online platforms. It is not possible to predict what, if any, impact any such rules could have on the Company’s negotiations with multichannel video programming distributors. 

From time to time, the FCC also conducts inquiries and rulemaking proceedings, which could lead to additional regulations that could have a material effect on the Company’s businesses. 

The FCC is engaged in a number of proceedings designed to make more of the electromagnetic spectrum that is currently used for broadcast television and satellite distribution available for wireless broadband or other uses. It may take several years for these proceedings and any related spectrum reallocation to be completed, and it is not possible to predict the impact that any such proceedings and reallocation could have on the Company. 

The FCC changed its television closed captioning rules 

These new rules, which generally have not yet taken effect pending further procedural requirements, will increase the captioning compliance obligations of video programmers such as the Company. 

Pursuant to the Accessibility Act, in July 2017, the FCC adopted rules that, beginning in July 2018, will increase the number of hours of audio descriptions of video content required to be provided by certain video distributors. 

Under the FCC’s rules, video clips that contain a single excerpt of a captioned television program with the same video and audio that was shown on television (“straight lift” clips) must be captioned, and, beginning in January 2017, the rule was expanded to apply to newly posted video clips that contain compilations of “straight lift” clips containing content previously shown on television with captions. These rules increase the costs of making video clips available online. 

Various other federal laws also contain provisions that place restrictions on violent and sexually explicit programming. 

In international territories, there are various laws and regulations relating to the distribution or licensing of television programming and other products. For example, the EU Audio Visual Media Services directive, which allows EU member states to adopt more restrictive regimes and applies to all programs produced after December 2009, obligates broadcasters to notify viewers if an audiovisual program contains paid product placement, bans any form of product placement in children’s and news programming and prohibits product placement of tobacco products and prescription medication. In May 2016, the EC proposed an amendment to the directive to require that the rules implemented under the directive by EU member states are applied consistently across various platforms, including traditional broadcast networks, VOD providers and video-sharing platforms. The Council of the EU and the European Parliament are reviewing the legislative proposal. Finally, several governments, including in Argentina, Brazil, India, Mexico and Uruguay, have recently proposed, enacted or more strictly enforced regulations that limit the amount of advertising content that can be aired on television networks. 

Regulation of the Distribution and Licensing of Feature Films 

In countries outside the U.S., there are a variety of laws and regulations relating to the distribution or licensing of feature films for exhibition in theaters and on broadcast and cable networks. In certain countries, laws and regulations limit the number of foreign films exhibited in such countries in a calendar year. 

Certain marketing activities are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as COPPA and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the “TCPA”), which restricts certain telephone calls, faxes or mobile text messages to consumers without their prior consent. Both the TCPA and CASL provide for private rights of action, and violations of these laws can result in potential liability, including substantial administrative fines and class action lawsuits. 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND BACKLOG 

Financial and other information by segment and revenues by geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017 are set forth in Note 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Segment Information.” Information with respect to the Company’s backlog, representing future revenue not yet recorded from cash contracts for the worldwide licensing of theatrical and television product for premium pay television services, basic cable and network and syndicated television exhibition, at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, is set forth in Note 17 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Commitments and Contingencies — Commitments — Programming Licensing Backlog.” 