Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, such as statements regarding our future financial condition or results of operations, our prospects and strategies for future growth, our anticipated charges and restructuring costs and the timing of these measures, the impact of recent tax reform legislation on our results of operations, the development and introduction of new products and the implementation of our marketing and branding strategies. 

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future events, results, actions, levels of activity, performance or achievements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those factors described in “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These factors include without limitation: 

•changes in general economic or market conditions that could affect overall consumer spending or our industry; 

•changes to the financial health of our customers; 

•our ability to successfully execute our long-term strategies; 

•our ability to successfully execute any restructuring plans and realize expected benefits; 

•our ability to effectively drive operational efficiency in our business; 

•our ability to manage the increasingly complex operations of our global business; 

•our ability to comply with existing trade and other regulations, and the potential impact of new trade and tax regulations on our profitability; 

•our ability to effectively develop and launch new, innovative and updated products; 

•our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand for our products and manage our inventory in response to changing demands; 

•any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design, implementation or application of our new global operating and financial reporting information technology system; 

•increased competition causing us to lose market share or reduce the prices of our products or to increase significantly our marketing efforts; 

•fluctuations in the costs of our products; 

•loss of key suppliers or manufacturers or failure of our suppliers or manufacturers to produce or deliver our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, including due to port disruptions; 

•our ability to further expand our business globally and to drive brand awareness and consumer acceptance of our products in other countries; 

•our ability to accurately anticipate and respond to seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; 

•our ability to successfully manage or realize expected results from acquisitions and other significant investments or capital expenditures; 

•risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 

•our ability to effectively market and maintain a positive brand image; 

•the availability, integration and effective operation of information systems and other technology, as well as any potential interruption of such systems or technology; 

•risks related to data security or privacy breaches; 

•our ability to raise additional capital required to grow our business on terms acceptable to us; 

•our potential exposure to litigation and other proceedings; and 

•our ability to attract key talent and retain the services of our senior management and key employees. 

The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 

Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by numerous risks. 

During a downturn in the economy, consumer purchases of discretionary items are affected, which could materially harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. 

Many of our products may be considered discretionary items for consumers. Factors affecting the level of consumer spending for such discretionary items include general economic conditions, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. 

We derive a substantial portion of our sales from large wholesale customers. 

We face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. To the extent one or more of our customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy, insolvency or cease operations, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time certain of our customers have experienced financial difficulties. 

A decline in sales to, or the loss of, one or more of our key customers could result in a material loss of net revenues and negatively impact our prospects for growth. 

We generate a significant portion of our wholesale revenues from sales to our largest customers. As a result, we face the risk that these key customers may not increase their business with us as we expect, or may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationship with us. In addition, our customers continue to experience ongoing industry consolidation, particularly in the sports specialty sector. 

We may not successfully execute our long-term strategies, which may negatively impact our results of operations. 

Our ability to continue to invest in these growth initiatives in the near-term may be negatively impacted by the performance of our North America business, which represented 77% of our total net revenues in 2017 but declined by 5% over 2016, and in particular the performance of our wholesale channel in North America. If we cannot effectively execute our long-term growth strategies while managing costs effectively, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 

We may not fully realize the expected benefits of any restructuring plans or other operating or cost-saving initiatives, which may negatively impact our profitability. 

We have recently announced restructuring plans designed to more closely align our financial resources against the critical priorities of our business. If we fail to achieve targeted operating improvements and/or cost reductions, our profitability and results of operations could be negatively impacted and we may be required to implement additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. These risks include, among others, higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring plans, management distraction from ongoing business activities, failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing our restructuring plans, damage to our reputation and brand image and workforce attrition beyond planned reductions. 

We must successfully manage the increasingly complex operations of our global business, or our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted. 

We have expanded our business and operations rapidly since our inception and our net revenues have increased to $4,976.6 million in 2017 from $2,332.1 million in 2013. We must also continually evaluate the need to expand critical functions in our business, including sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, our management information systems and other processes and technology. These growth efforts could also increase the strain on our existing resources. We may not be successful in undertaking these types of initiatives cost effectively or at all, and could experience serious operating difficulties if we fail to do so. 

If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences, successfully develop and introduce new, innovative and updated products or engage our consumers, our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted. 

Our success depends on our ability to identify and originate product trends as well as to anticipate and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. 

If we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products or design products in the categories and styles that consumers want, demand for our products could decline and our brand image could be negatively impacted. 

In addition, if we experience problems with the quality of our products, our brand reputation may be negatively impacted and we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 

In addition, consumer preferences regarding the shopping experience continue to rapidly evolve. 

Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. 

To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and place orders with our manufacturers before firm orders are placed by our customers. 

Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: 

•an increase or decrease in consumer demand for our products; 

•our failure to accurately forecast consumer acceptance for our new products; 

•unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders or at-once orders placed by retailers; 

•the impact on consumer demand due to unseasonable weather conditions; 

•weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items, such as our products; and 

•terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, or political or labor instability or unrest which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. 

Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices or in less preferred distribution channels, which could impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on gross margin. 

The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. 

Sales of performance products may not continue to grow or may decline, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to grow our business. 

We believe continued growth in industry-wide sales of performance apparel, footwear and accessories will be largely dependent on consumers continuing to transition from traditional alternatives to performance products. If consumers are not convinced these products are a better choice than traditional alternatives, growth in the industry and our business could be adversely affected. 

We operate in highly competitive markets and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our net revenues and gross profit. 

Many of our competitors are large apparel and footwear companies with strong worldwide brand recognition. Due to the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in products similar to ours and private label offerings of certain retailers, including some of our retail customers. As a result, these competitors may be better equipped than we are to influence consumer preferences or otherwise increase their market share by: 

•quickly adapting to changes in customer requirements or consumer preferences; 

•readily taking advantage of acquisition and other opportunities; 

•discounting excess inventory that has been written down or written off; 

•devoting resources to the marketing and sale of their products, including significant advertising, media placement, partnerships and product endorsement; 

•engaging in lengthy and costly intellectual property and other disputes. 

In addition, while one of our growth strategies has been to increase floor space for our products in retail stores and generally expand our distribution to other retailers, retailers have limited resources and floor space, and we must compete with others to develop relationships with them. 

Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on pricing. 

These factors may cause us to reduce our prices to retailers and consumers or engage in more promotional activity than we anticipate, which could negatively impact our margins and cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. In addition, ongoing and sustained promotional activities could negatively impact our brand image. 

Fluctuations in the cost of products could negatively affect our operating results. 

The cost of transporting our products for distribution and sale is also subject to fluctuation due in large part to the price of oil. In addition, certain of our manufacturers are subject to government regulations related to wage rates, and therefore the labor costs to produce our products may fluctuate. Manufacturing delays or unexpected transportation delays can also cause us to rely more heavily on airfreight to achieve timely delivery to our customers, which significantly increases freight costs. 

We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to provide raw materials for and to produce our products, and we have limited control over these suppliers and manufacturers and may not be able to obtain quality products on a timely basis or in sufficient quantity. 

Substantially all of our products are 

manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers, and, in 2017, 10 manufacturers produced approximately 57% of our apparel and accessories products, and five produced approximately 83% of our footwear products. 

If we experience significant increased demand, or we lose or need to replace an existing manufacturer or supplier as a result of adverse economic conditions or other reasons, additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity may not be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or suppliers or manufacturers may not be able to allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers on our methods, products and quality control standards. 

In addition, because we do not control our manufacturers, products that fail to meet our standards or other unauthorized products could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge, which could harm our brand and our reputation in the marketplace. 

Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers or manufacturers may adversely affect our business. 

As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide and on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. 

Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may limit our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer. 

During the year ended December 31, 2017, 77% of our net revenues were earned in our North America segment. International expansion may place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and may be more costly than we expect. Failure to develop new markets outside of North America will limit our opportunities for growth. 

The operations of many of our manufacturers are subject to additional risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our business. 

In 2017, our products were manufactured by 39 primary manufacturers, operating in 17 countries, with 10 manufacturers accounting for approximately 57% of our apparel and accessories products, and five produced approximately 83% of our footwear products. 

•political or labor unrest, terrorism and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries in which our products are manufactured; 

•the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, trade restrictions and restrictions on the transfer of funds, as well as rules and regulations regarding climate change; 

•reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 

•disruptions or delays in shipments; and 

•changes in local economic conditions in countries where our manufacturers and suppliers are located. 

These risks could negatively affect the ability of our manufacturers to produce or deliver our products or procure materials, hamper our ability to sell products in international markets and increase our cost of doing business generally. 

Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new import limitations, duties, anti-dumping penalties or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

If we fail to successfully manage or realize expected results from acquisitions and other significant investments, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

Integrating acquisitions can also require significant efforts and resources, which could divert management attention from more profitable business operations. 

Our credit agreement contains financial covenants, and both our credit agreement and debt securities contain other restrictions on our actions, which could limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. 

In February 2018, we amended our credit agreement to increase our permitted leverage ratio during certain quarters in 2018. Our debt securities limit our ability to, subject to certain significant exceptions, incur secured debt and engage in sale leaseback transactions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. In addition, the credit agreement includes a cross default provision whereby an event of default under certain other debt obligations (including our debt securities) will be considered an event of default under the credit agreement. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the credit agreement or our debt securities could result in a default. 

We may need to raise additional capital required to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. 

We have utilized cash on hand and cash generated from operations, accessed our credit facility and issued debt securities as sources of liquidity. Our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future as a source of liquidity, and the borrowing costs associated with such financing, are dependent upon market conditions and our credit rating and 

In addition, equity financing may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price per share of our common stock. Our credit ratings have been downgraded previously, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our current ratings, which could increase our cost of borrowing in the future. 

Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenues and income from operations, which could adversely affect the price of our publicly traded common stock. 

These variations are primarily related to increased sales volume of our products during the fall selling season, including our higher price cold weather products, along with a larger proportion of higher margin direct to consumer sales. 

For example, warmer than normal weather conditions throughout the fall or winter may reduce sales of our COLDGEAR line, leaving us with excess inventory and operating results below our expectations. 

Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. 

Our financial results could be adversely impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

We generated approximately 27% of our consolidated net revenues outside the United States. Revenues and certain expenses in markets outside of the United States are recognized in local foreign currencies, and we are exposed to potential gains or losses from the translation of those amounts into U.S. dollars for consolidation into our financial statements. As our international business grows, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 

The value of our brand and sales of our products could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. 

Our business could be negatively impacted if publicity diminishes the appeal of our brand to consumers. Negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our reputation and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licensees. 

In addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a variety of athletes and feature those athletes in our advertising and marketing efforts, and many athletes and teams use our products, including those teams or leagues for which we are an official supplier. This could have a negative effect on our sales and results of operations. 

Sponsorships and designations as an official supplier may become more expensive and this could impact the value of our brand image. 

We have developed licensing agreements to be the official supplier of performance apparel and footwear to a variety of sports teams and leagues at the collegiate and professional level and sponsorship agreements with athletes. If we are unable to maintain our current association with professional and collegiate athletes, teams and leagues, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. 

Our failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity. 

If we fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims or be required to recall products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and disrupt our ability to conduct our business, as well as damage our brand image with consumers. 

Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. 

If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market could be adversely affected. 

We rely on a limited number of distribution facilities for our product distribution. Our distribution facilities utilize computer controlled and automated equipment, which means the operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. If we encounter problems with our distribution facilities, our results of operations, as well as our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. 

We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. 

Our business relies on information technology. Any of these information systems could fail or experience a service interruption for a number of reasons, including computer viruses, programming errors, hacking or other unlawful activities, disasters or our failure to properly maintain system redundancy or protect, repair, maintain or upgrade our systems. 

We also communicate electronically throughout the world with our employees and with third parties, such as customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. Remediation and repair of any failure, problem or breach of our key information systems could require significant capital investments. 

Consumers increasingly utilize these services to purchase our products and to engage with our Connected Fitness community. In addition, we interact with many of our consumers through both our e-commerce website and our mobile applications, and these systems face similar risk of interruption or attack. 

Data security or privacy breaches could damage our reputation, cause us to incur additional expense, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

Any breach of our data security or that of our service providers could result in an unauthorized release or transfer of customer, consumer, user or employee information, or the loss of valuable business data or cause a disruption in our business. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or respond to or alleviate problems caused by a security breach, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 

We must also comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards throughout the world enacted to protect personal information and other data. This could negatively impact our profitability, result in negative publicity and damage our brand image or cause the size of our Connected Fitness community to decline. 

We are in the process of implementing a new operating and information system, which involves risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. 

The first phase of this implementation became operational during 2017 in our North America, EMEA and Connected Fitness operations, and we are in the process of developing an implementation strategy and roll-out plan for our Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions. Implementation of new information systems involves risks and uncertainties. 

Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. 

proposals from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and specific country anti-avoidance initiatives. 

The Tax Act includes a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us, including the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The Tax Act also provides for a one-time transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings and the acceleration of depreciation for certain assets, as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including the elimination of certain domestic deductions and credits, capitalization of research and development expenditures, and limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation and interest. 

The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. 

Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. 

From time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as the ongoing expansion of our network of brand and factory house stores and our distribution facilities, the expansion of our corporate headquarters, investments to implement our global operating and financial reporting information technology system, or investments to support our digital strategy. These investments require substantial cash investments and management attention. 

Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. 

Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees, particularly Kevin A. Plank, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 

We also may be unable to retain existing management, product creation, innovation, sales, marketing, operational and other support personnel that are critical to our success, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. 

If we are unable to attract and retain new team members, including senior management, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. 

Our growth has largely been the result of significant contributions by our current senior management, product design teams and other key employees. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain management and other employees with the necessary skills, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business and achieve our long term objectives. 

A number of our fabrics and manufacturing technology are not patented and can be imitated by our competitors. 

Our ability to obtain patent protection for our products is limited and we currently own a limited number of fabric or process patents. If our competitors do sell similar products to ours at lower prices, our net revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 

Our intellectual property rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling or providing some of our products. 

Our success depends in large part on our brand image. In addition, patents are increasingly important with respect to our innovative products and new businesses and investments, including our digital business. Any such claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend or prosecute. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling or providing some of our products. 

Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand, weaken our competitive position and reduce our net revenues. 

In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. 

From time to time, we discover unauthorized products in the marketplace that are either counterfeit reproductions of our products or unauthorized irregulars that do not meet our quality control standards. 

We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. 

We are subject to periodic claims, litigation and investigations that could result in unexpected expenses and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

These matters include those contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legal proceedings in general, and securities and class action litigation and investigations in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. An unfavorable outcome may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any proceeding could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and our brand image. 

The trading prices for our Class A and Class C common stock may differ and fluctuate from time to time. 

The trading prices of our Class A and Class C common stock may differ and fluctuate from time to time in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. 

Kevin Plank, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls the majority of the voting power of our common stock. 

The Class B common stock automatically converts to Class A common stock when Mr. Plank beneficially owns less than 15.0% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding and in other limited circumstances. As a result, Mr. Plank has the majority voting control and is able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and other matters we submit to a vote of our stockholders. In addition, we utilize shares of our Class C common stock to fund employee equity incentive programs and may do so in connection with future stock-based acquisition transactions, which could prolong the duration of Mr. Plank’s voting control. 