Our products are sold worldwide and are worn by athletes at all levels, from youth to professional, on playing fields around the globe, as well as by consumers with active lifestyles. 

Internationally, our net revenues are generated from a mix of wholesale sales to retailers and distributors and sales through our direct to consumer sales channels, and license revenue from sales by our third party licensees. A large majority of our products are sold in North America; however we believe that our products appeal to athletes and consumers with active lifestyles around the globe. 

We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term through increased sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories, expansion of our wholesale distribution, growth in our direct to consumer sales channel and expansion in international markets. 

We have registered trademarks around the globe, including UNDER ARMOUR, HEATGEAR, COLDGEAR, ALLSEASONGEAR and the Under Armour UA Logo, and we have applied to register many other trademarks. All trademarks and tradenames appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders. 

In 2017, sales of apparel, footwear and accessories represented 66%, 21% and 9% of net revenues, respectively. Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by product. 

Our apparel is engineered to replace traditional non-performance fabrics in the world of athletics and fitness with performance alternatives designed and merchandised along gearlines. Within each gearline our apparel comes in three primary fit types: compression (tight fit), fitted (athletic fit) and loose (relaxed). 

HEATGEAR is designed to be worn in warm to hot temperatures under equipment or as a single layer. 

COLDGEAR is designed to wick moisture from the body while circulating body heat from hot spots to help maintain core body temperature. 

Our COLDGEAR products generally sell at higher prices than our other gearlines. 

ALLSEASONGEAR is designed to be worn in between extreme temperatures and uses technical fabrics to keep the wearer cool and dry in warmer temperatures while preventing a chill in cooler temperatures. 

Our footwear offerings include running, basketball, cleated, slides and performance training, and outdoor footwear. 

Accessories primarily includes the sale of athletic performance gloves, bags and headwear. 

We offer digital fitness subscriptions, along with digital advertising through our MapMyFitness, MyFitnessPal and Endomondo applications. 

Our product, marketing and sales teams are involved in substantially all steps of the design and go to market process in order to maintain brand standards and consistency. 

We currently focus on marketing and selling our products to consumers primarily for use in athletics, fitness, training, outdoor activities and as part of an active lifestyle. 

We execute this strategy through outfitting agreements, professional and collegiate sponsorships, individual athlete agreements and by providing and selling our products directly to team equipment managers and to individual athletes. This exposure to consumers helps us establish on-field authenticity as consumers can see our products being worn by high-performing athletes. 

We are the official outfitter of athletic teams in several high-profile collegiate conferences. We are the official headwear and performance apparel provider for the NFL Scouting Combine and the official partner and title sponsor of the NBA Draft Combine, in each case with the right to sell licensed combine training apparel and headwear. 

sponsor and sell our products to several European and Latin American soccer and rugby teams, which helps drive brand awareness in various countries and regions around the world. 

We feature our products in a variety of national digital, broadcast, and print media outlets. 

The design and funding of Under Armour concept shops within our major retail accounts has been a key initiative for securing prime floor space, educating the consumer and creating an exciting environment for the consumer to experience our brand. 

In addition, we sell our products to independent distributors in various countries where we generally do not have direct sales operations and through licensees. 

In 2017, sales through our wholesale, direct to consumer, licensing and Connected Fitness channels represented 61%, 35%, 2% and 2% of net revenues, respectively. Factory house stores serve an important role in our overall inventory management by allowing us to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products while maintaining the pricing integrity of our brand in our other distribution channels. 

We believe the trend toward performance products is global and plan to continue to introduce our products and simple merchandising story to athletes throughout the world. 

Each of these geographic segments operate predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and distribution of performance apparel, footwear and accessories. The following table presents net revenues by segment for each of the years ending December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: 

Our North America segment accounted for approximately 76.5% of our net revenues for 2017. Net revenues generated from the sales of our products in the United States were $3.6 billion, $3.8 billion and $3.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. 

Consumers can purchase our products directly from our e-commerce website, www.underarmour.com. As of December 31, 2017, we had 162 factory house stores in North America primarily located in outlet centers throughout the United States. 

In order to maintain consistent quality and performance, we pre-approve all products manufactured and sold by our licensees, and our quality assurance team strives to ensure that the products meet the same quality and compliance standards as the products that we sell directly. 

In addition, we distribute our products in North America through third-party logistics providers with primary locations in Canada, New Jersey and Florida. 

We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term in part through expansion in international markets. 

We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories primarily through wholesale customers, website operations, independent distributors and a limited number of stores we operate in certain European countries. We generally distribute our products to our retail customers and e-commerce consumers in Europe through a third-party logistics provider. 

We also sell our products to distributors in New Zealand, Taiwan, Hong Kong and other countries in Southeast Asia where we do not have direct sales operations. 

We have a license agreement with Dome Corporation, which produces, markets and sells our branded apparel, footwear and accessories in Japan. 

In other Latin American countries we distribute our products through independent distributors which are sourced through our international distribution hubs in Hong Kong, Jordan and Panama. 

In 2015, we acquired the Endomondo and MyFitnessPal platforms to create our Connected Fitness business. We plan to engage and grow this community by developing innovative services and other digital solutions to impact how athletes and fitness-minded individuals train, perform and live. 

We generally expect inventory, accounts payable and certain accrued expenses to be higher in the second and third quarters in preparation for the fall selling season. 

This approach enables us to select and create superior, technically advanced fabrics, produced to our specifications, while focusing our product development efforts on design, fit, climate and product end use. 

We design products with “visible technology,” utilizing color, texture and fabrication to enhance our customers’ perception and understanding of product use and benefits. 

For example, these teams worked closely to identify the opportunity and market for our COLDGEAR Infrared product, which is a ceramic print technology on the inside of our garments that provides athletes with lightweight warmth, and Speedform, a proprietary 3-dimensional molding technology for footwear which delivers superior fit and feel. 

Many of the specialty fabrics and other raw materials used in our apparel products are technically advanced products developed by third parties and may be available, in the short term, from a limited number of sources. In 2017, approximately 53% of the fabric used in our apparel products came from five suppliers. Additionally, our footwear uses raw materials that are sourced from a diverse base of third party suppliers. Cotton is a commodity that is subject to price fluctuations and supply shortages. 

In 2017, our apparel and accessories products were manufactured by 39 primary contract manufacturers, operating in 17 countries, with approximately 61% of our apparel and accessories products manufactured in Jordan, Vietnam, China and Malaysia. Of our seven primary contract manufacturers, five produced approximately 83% of our footwear products. 

Where appropriate, we strive to qualify multiple manufacturers for particular product types and fabrications. We enter into a variety of agreements with our contract manufacturers, including non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, and we require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a code of conduct regarding quality of manufacturing and working conditions and other social concerns. We also manufacture a limited number of products primarily for high- 

profile athletes and teams, on-premises in our quick turn, Special Make-Up Shop located at one of our facilities in Maryland. 

Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems and processes in place to improve our inventory management. These systems and processes, including our new global operating and financial reporting information technology system, are designed to improve our forecasting and supply planning capabilities. 

As it relates to new product introductions, which can often require large initial launch shipments, we commence production before receiving orders for those products from time to time. 

Our major trademarks include the UA Logo and UNDER ARMOUR, both of which are registered in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the European Union, Japan, China and numerous other countries. We also own applications to protect connected fitness branding such as UNDER ARMOUR CONNECTED FITNESS. We intend to continue to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, trademarks and copyrights we utilize today and those we develop in the future. 

We believe the distinctive trademarks we use in connection with our products are important in building our brand image and distinguishing our products from those of others. 

In addition, patents are increasingly important with respect to our innovative products and new businesses and investments, particularly in our Connected Fitness business. We will continue to strategically file patent applications where we deem appropriate to protect our new products, innovations and designs. 

The market for performance apparel, footwear and accessories is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and marketing of performance products. Many of our competitors are large apparel and footwear companies with strong worldwide brand recognition and significantly greater resources than us, such as Nike and Adidas. 

However, if retailers earn higher margins from our competitors’ products, they may favor the display and sale of those products. 

In the future we expect to compete for consumer preferences and expect that we may face greater competition on pricing. The purchasing decisions of consumers for our products often reflect highly subjective preferences that can be influenced by many factors, including advertising, media, product sponsorships, product improvements and changing styles. 

As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 15,800 employees, including approximately 9,900 in our brand and factory house stores and approximately 1,500 at our distribution facilities. Most of our employees are located in the United States. 

We will make available free of charge on or through our website at www.underarmour.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 