ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK 

In addition, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions generated by our foreign subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currencies. These exposures are included in other expense, net on the consolidated statements of income. These gains and losses are primarily driven by intercompany transactions and inventory purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the purchasing entity. 

As we expand our international business, we anticipate expanding our current hedging program to include additional currency pairs and instruments. 

As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate notional value of our outstanding foreign currency contracts was $601.0 million, which was comprised of Canadian Dollar/U.S. 

For foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value, excluding any ineffective portion, is recorded in other comprehensive income until net income is affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged transaction. currency pairs with contract maturities of one to eleven months. The effective portion is generally released to net income after the maturity of the related derivative and is classified in the same manner as the underlying exposure. The fair value of our foreign currency contracts was an asset of $15.2 million as of December 31, 2016 and was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. Included in other expense, net were the following amounts related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and derivative foreign currency contracts: 

We enter into foreign currency contracts with major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and are exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by these financial institutions. However, we monitor the credit quality of these financial institutions and consider the risk of counterparty default to be minimal. 

The nature and amount of our long-term debt can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. We utilize interest rate swap contracts to convert a portion of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. The interest rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and accordingly, the effective portion of the changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified into interest expense over the life of the underlying debt obligation. 

As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate notional value of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts was $135.6 million. The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $1.1 million as of December 31, 2017 and was included in other long term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 

We believe that our exposure to concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is largely mitigated by our customer base. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts." 

Inflationary factors such as increases in the cost of our product and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. 

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 