Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments.
Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
Interest Rate Risk
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt.
Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements.
However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest.
All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets.
We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds.
Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates.
The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2017 (in millions, except percentages):
33
As of December 31, 2017, we had $24.9 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions):
Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2017.
Foreign Exchange Risk
During 2017, net sales from our International segment accounted for 30% of our consolidated revenues.
Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused websites, and from www.amazon.ca and www.amazon.com.mx (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds.
The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances.
For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the period compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased by $137 million in comparison with the prior year.
We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”).
Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2017, of $11.1 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $555 million, $1.1 billion, and $2.2 billion.
All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies.
Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2017, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $280 million, $600 million, and $1.3 billion, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.”
See Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Investment Risk
As of December 31, 2017, our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $737 million.
We record our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility, and represents $415 million of our investments as of December 31, 2017.
We evaluate our equity and equity warrant investments in private companies for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary.
Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data.
The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty.
Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data.
As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable.
34
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data