Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Introduction and Overview
We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal.
We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks (collectively, the “NBCUniversal segments”).
The following provides an overview of our businesses.
Consolidated Revenue, Net Income Attributable to Comcast Corporation and Adjusted EBITDA(a)
(in billions)
(a)Adjusted EBITDA is a performance measure that is not defined by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” section on page 50 for additional information, including our definition and our use of Adjusted EBITDA, and for a reconciliation from net income attributable to Comcast Corporation to Adjusted EBITDA.
2017 Consolidated Operating Results by Segment(a)
  Revenue Adjusted EBITDA
(a)Charts exclude the results of NBCUniversal Headquarters and Other, Corporate and Other, and eliminations.
 32Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Cable Communications Segment
Comcast Cable is one of the nation’s largest providers of video, high-speed Internet, voice, and security and automation services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the Xfinity brand; we also provide these and other services to business customers and sell advertising.
As of December 31, 2017, our cable systems had 29.3 million total customer relationships, including 27.2 million residential customer relationships and 2.2 million business customer relationships, and passed more than 57 million homes and businesses.
Our Cable Communications segment generates revenue primarily from residential and business customers that subscribe to our cable services, which we market individually and as bundled services, and from the sale of advertising.
Customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis based on the services and features they receive and the types of equipment they use.
A portion of our residential customers are subject to minimum-term contracts for their cable services, which are typically 2 years in length.
Substantially all of our business customers are initially under minimum-term contracts, which typically range from 2 to 5 years.
Customers with minimum-term contracts may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts.
NBCUniversal Segments
NBCUniversal is one of the world’s leading media and entertainment companies that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences, and owns and operates theme parks worldwide.
Cable Networks
Our Cable Networks segment consists primarily of a diversified portfolio of cable television networks.
Our cable networks are comprised of our national cable entertainment networks (USA Network, E!, Syfy, Bravo, Oxygen and Universal Kids), our national cable news and information networks (MSNBC, CNBC and CNBC World), our national cable sports networks (NBC Sports Network, Golf Channel and Olympic Channel), our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, our cable television studio production operations, and our various digital properties.
Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the distribution and licensing of its programming and from the sale of advertising on its networks and digital properties.
Broadcast Television
Our Broadcast Television segment consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and our various digital properties.
Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on its networks and digital properties, from the licensing of its programming, and from the fees received under retransmission consent agreements and associated fees received from NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations.
Filmed Entertainment
Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide.
Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names.
Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of films we produce or acquire for exhibition in movie theaters and from the licensing and sale of produced and acquired films.
Theme Parks`
Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan.
In addition, along with a consortium of Chinese state-owned companies, we are developing a theme park in China.
Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks.
Corporate and Other
Our other business interests consist primarily of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.
We are also pursuing other business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that we launched in the second quarter of 2017 using our virtual network operator rights to provide the service over Verizon’s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots.
We offer the wireless phone service only as part of our bundled service offerings to residential customers that subscribe to our high-speed Internet service within our cable distribution footprint and may in the future also offer wireless phone service to our small business customers on similar terms.
The wireless phone service has success-based working capital requirements, primarily associated with the procurement of handsets, which customers are able to pay for upfront or finance interest-free over 24 months, and other equipment.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
33
2017 Developments
The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2017:
•increased investments in scalable infrastructure to increase network capacity;
•increased investments in line extensions, primarily for the expansion of our business services; and
•decreased spending on customer premise equipment
•The acquisition of the remaining interests in Universal Studios Japan that we did not already own for $2.3 billion
Corporate and Other
•The launch of our wireless phone service in the second quarter of 2017 to our residential cable customers
•The acquisition of rights to $1.7 billion of spectrum, as well as the receipt of proceeds of $482 million related to NBCUniversal’s relinquishment of spectrum rights
•Cash capital contributions to Atairos totaling $994 million, which brought our investment in Atairos to $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2017
•The enactment of new federal tax reform legislation in December 2017 which, among other things, reduced the federal corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a $12.7 billion net income tax benefit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 primarily due to a reduction of our net deferred tax liability
Competition
The results of operations of our reportable business segments are affected by competition, as all of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers.
Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and challenging existing business models.
In particular, consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, which has and likely will continue to reduce the number of our video customers and subscribers to our cable networks even as it makes our high-speed Internet services more valuable to consumers.
In addition, the increasing number of entertainment choices available has intensified audience fragmentation, which has and likely will continue to adversely affect the audience ratings of our cable networks and broadcast television programming.
For additional information on the competition our businesses face, see Item 1: Business and Item 1A: Risk Factors.
Within the Business section, refer to the “Competition” discussion, and within the Risk Factors section, refer to the risk factors entitled “Our businesses currently face a wide range of competition, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively” and “Changes in consumer behavior driven by online distribution platforms for viewing content could adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models.”
 34Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Seasonality and Cyclicality
Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations.
In our Cable Communications segment, our results are impacted by the seasonal nature of residential customers receiving our cable services in college and vacation markets.
This generally results in fewer net customer relationship additions in the second quarter of each year.
Revenue in our Cable Communications, Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments is subject to cyclical advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels.
Advertising revenue in the U.S. is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season.
Advertising revenue in the U.S. is also cyclical, with a benefit in even-numbered years due to advertising related to candidates running for political office and issue-oriented advertising.
Revenue in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments fluctuates depending on the timing of when our programming is aired, which typically results in higher advertising revenue in the second and fourth quarters of each year.
Our revenue and operating costs and expenses (comprised of total costs and expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization expense and other operating gains) are cyclical as a result of our periodic broadcasts of major sporting events, such as the Olympic Games, which affect our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments, and the Super Bowl, which affects our Broadcast Television segment.
In particular, our advertising revenue increases due to increased demand for advertising time and our distribution revenue increases in the period of these broadcasts.
Our operating costs and expenses also increase as a result of our production costs for these broadcasts and the amortization of the related rights fees.
Revenue in our Filmed Entertainment segment fluctuates due to the timing, nature and number of films released in movie theaters, on standard-definition digital video discs and Blu-ray discs (together, “DVDs”), and through various other distribution platforms.
Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.
As a result, revenue tends to be seasonal, with increases experienced each year during the summer months and around the holiday season.
Content licensing revenue in our Cable Networks, Broadcast Television and Filmed Entertainment segments also fluctuates due to the timing of when our content is made available to licensees.
Revenue in our Theme Parks segment fluctuates with changes in theme park attendance that result from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and weather variations, local entertainment offerings and the opening of new attractions as well as with changes in currency exchange rates.
Our theme parks generally experience peak attendance during the spring holiday period, the summer months when schools are closed and the holiday season.
Consolidated Operating Results
All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts.
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
Percentage changes that are considered not meaningful are denoted with NM.
(a)Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP performance measure.
Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” section on page 50 for additional information, including our definition and our use of Adjusted EBITDA, and for a reconciliation from net income attributable to Comcast Corporation to Adjusted EBITDA.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
35
Consolidated Revenue
The following graph illustrates the contributions to the increases in consolidated revenue made by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, as well as by Corporate and Other activities including eliminations.
The primary drivers of the changes in revenue were as follows:
2017
•Growth in our Cable Communications segment driven by revenue from residential high-speed Internet and video services and business services
•Growth in our NBCUniversal segments driven by Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks, partially offset by revenue in 2016 associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics
2016
•Growth in our Cable Communications segment driven by revenue from residential high-speed Internet and video services and business services
•Our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, which was reported in our NBCUniversal segments
Revenue for our segments is discussed separately below under the heading “Segment Operating Results.” Revenue for our other businesses and business development initiatives is discussed separately under the heading “Corporate and Other Results of Operations.”
 36Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Consolidated Costs and Expenses
The following graph illustrates the contributions to the increases in consolidated operating costs and expenses made by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, as well as by Corporate and Other activities including eliminations.
The primary drivers of the changes in operating costs and expenses were as follows:
2017
•An increase in programming expenses in our Cable Communications segment
•An increase in programming and production expenses in our Filmed Entertainment segment, partially offset by expenses in 2016 associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics
•An increase in Corporate and Other activities driven by the launch of our wireless phone service
2016
•An increase in programming expenses in our Cable Communications segment
•Our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, which was reported in our NBCUniversal segments
Operating costs and expenses for our segments is discussed separately below under the heading “Segment Operating Results.” Operating costs and expenses for our corporate operations, other businesses and business development initiatives is discussed separately below under the heading “Corporate and Other Results of Operations.”
Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to increases in capital expenditures, as well as expenditures for software, in our Cable Communications segment in recent years.
We continue to invest to increase our network capacity and in customer premise equipment, primarily for our X1 platform, cloud DVR technology and wireless gateways.
Certain of these assets in our Cable Communications segment have relatively short estimated useful lives, which increased depreciation expense in 2017 and 2016 and will continue to increase depreciation expense in 2018.
NBCUniversal depreciation and amortization expense also increased primarily due to our continued investment in new attractions in our Theme Parks segment, including for Universal Studios Japan.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
37
Consolidated Other Operating Gains
Consolidated other operating gains for 2017 included $337 million related to NBCUniversal’s relinquishment of spectrum rights (see Note 5 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 4 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements) and $105 million related to the sale of a business in Corporate and Other (see Note 7 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
Segment Operating Results
Our segment operating results are presented based on how we assess operating performance and internally report financial information.
We use Adjusted EBITDA as the measure of profit or loss for our operating segments.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income attributable to Comcast Corporation before net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock, income tax benefit (expense), total other income (expense), depreciation and amortization expense, and other operating gains, and excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on the sale of long-lived assets, if any.
From time to time we may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA the impact of events, gains, losses or other charges (such as significant legal settlements) that affect the period-to-period comparability of our operating performance.
Adjusted EBITDA for our segments is not a non-GAAP financial measure.
We reconcile the aggregate amount of Adjusted EBITDA for our reportable business segments to consolidated income before income taxes in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (see Note 17 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 15 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements).
To be consistent with our current management reporting presentation, certain 2016 and 2015 operating results were reclassified within the Cable Communications segment.
The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics were reported in our Cable Networks and Broadcast Television segments.
The revenue and operating costs and expenses associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl were reported in our Broadcast Television segment.
Cable Communications Segment Results of Operations
Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Residential Customer Relationships
(in billions) (in millions)
 38Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Customer metrics are presented based on actual amounts.
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
For multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”), including buildings located on college campuses, whose residents have the ability to receive additional cable services, such as additional programming choices or our high-definition video (“HD”) or digital video recorder (“DVR”) advanced services, we count and report customers based on the number of potential billable relationships within each MDU.
For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional cable services, the MDU is counted as a single customer.
In 2017, we began to offer prepaid services that allow customers to prepay for at least 30 days of service.
Residential video and high-speed Internet customers as of December 31, 2017 included prepaid customers totaling approximately 3,000 and 60,000, respectively.
Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services.
Single product, double product, and triple and quad product customers represent residential customers that subscribe to one, two, or three and four of our cable services, respectively.
Beginning in 2017, we include customers subscribing to our security and automation services in customer relationship information.
All periods presented have been adjusted for the inclusion of security and automation customers.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
39
Cable Communications Segment – Revenue
Video
Our Cable Communications segment offers a broad variety of video services packages that may include premium networks, pay-per-view services and our On Demand service.
Our video customers may subscribe for additional fees to our HD and DVR advanced services.
We continue to deploy set-top boxes for our Internet Protocol (“IP”) and cloud-enabled video platform, referred to as our X1 platform, and cloud DVR technology throughout our footprint.
Video revenue increased 3.5% and 3.9% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The increases in revenue in both years were primarily due to rate adjustments and increases in the number of residential customers subscribing to additional services such as premium channels and advanced services, which accounted for substantially all of the increases in both 2017 and 2016.
The increase in 2017 was partially offset by a decrease in the number of residential video customers.
As of December 31, 2017, 15.0 million customers subscribed to at least one of our HD or DVR advanced services compared to 14.8 million customers and 13.9 million customers as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
We have experienced, and may experience in the future, declines in the number of residential video customers due to competitive pressures and the impact of rate adjustments.
Competition is intense, both from traditional multichannel video providers and from new technologies and distribution platforms for viewing content.
We are responding to this competition, and have attempted to mitigate industry-wide declines in residential video customers at traditional multichannel video providers, through our X1 platform and sales and marketing programs, such as promotions, bundled service offerings and service offerings targeted at specific market segments.
As of December 31, 2017, 39.1% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our video services, compared to 39.9% and 40.1% as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
High-Speed Internet
We offer high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds that range up to 1 gigabit per second (“Gbps”) and fiber-based speeds that range up to 2 Gbps.
Throughout our footprint, we continue to deploy wireless gateways that combine a customer’s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter to improve the performance of multiple IP-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network.
We continue to expand our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots to allow most of our high-speed Internet customers to access our high-speed Internet services inside and outside the home.
As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 18.8 million of these hotspots.
High-speed Internet revenue increased 9.1% and 8.5% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Increases in the number of residential customers receiving our high-speed Internet services accounted for increases in revenue of 5.1% and 5.8% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The remaining increases in revenue in both 2017 and 2016 were primarily due to increases in the number of customers receiving higher levels of service and the impact of rate adjustments.
We believe our customer base will continue to grow as consumers choose our high-speed Internet service and seek higher-speed offerings.
As of December 31, 2017, 45.2% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our high-speed Internet services, compared to 43.8% and 41.9% as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Voice
We offer voice services that provide local and long-distance calling and other related features.
Voice revenue decreased 4.2% and 1.9% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The decreases were primarily due to the allocation of voice revenue for our customers who receive bundled services.
The amount allocated to voice revenue in the rate charged for bundled services decreased in both years because video and high-speed Internet rates increased while voice rates remained relatively flat.
The decrease in revenue in 2017 was also partially due to a decrease in the number of residential voice customers, which may continue to decline.
As of December 31, 2017, 20.2% of the homes and businesses in the areas we serve subscribed to our voice services, compared to 20.7% and 20.6% as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Business Services
We offer a variety of products and services to meet the demands of businesses, with downstream speeds that range up to 1 Gbps and fiber-based speeds that range up to 10 Gbps.
Our small business services offerings primarily include high-speed Internet services, as well as voice and video services, similar to those that we provide to our residential customers, and also include cloud-based solutions that provide file sharing, online backup and web conferencing, among other features.
We also offer Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises, as well as advanced voice services.
In addition, we provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help these customers manage their network bandwidth.
 40Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Recently, we have expanded our enterprise service offerings to include a software-defined networking product and our managed solutions business to offer enterprise customers support related to Wi-Fi networks, router management, network security, business continuity risks and other services.
We primarily offer our enterprise service offerings to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of our cable distribution footprint where we have agreements with other companies to use their networks to provide coverage outside of our service areas.
Business services revenue increased 12.7% and 16.1% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The increases in 2017 and 2016 were primarily due to increases in the number of customers receiving our small business services offerings, as well as our medium-sized business services offerings.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, revenue from our small business services offerings represented the majority of our total business services revenue.
We believe the increases in the number of business customers were primarily the result of our efforts to gain market share from competitors by offering competitive services and pricing, although the rate of growth in the number of our small business customers may slow as the business matures.
Advertising
As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that we sell through our advertising business to local, regional and national advertisers.
In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force.
In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us.
We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets.
In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.
Advertising revenue is affected by the strength of the advertising market, general economic conditions, and cyclicality related to political campaigns and issue-oriented advertising.
Advertising revenue decreased 8.8% in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in political advertising revenue.
Advertising revenue increased 11.1% in 2016 primarily due to an increase in political advertising revenue.
Excluding the impact of political advertising revenue, advertising decreased 1.6% in 2017 and increased slightly in 2016.
In 2017, 5% of our Cable Communications segment advertising revenue was generated from our NBCUniversal segments, compared to 5% and 6% in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
These amounts are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.
Other
Other revenue primarily includes revenue related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees.
We also receive revenue related to fees from other services, such as our security and automation services.
Cable franchise and other regulatory fees represent the fees we are required to pay to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers.
Under the terms of our cable franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue.
The changes in franchise and other regulatory fees collected from our cable services customers are generally due to changes in the revenue to which the fees apply.
Other revenue increased 4.8% and 12.2% in 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily due to increases in cable franchise and other regulatory fees, revenue from our security and automation services, and our X1 licensing agreements.
Cable Communications Segment – Operating Costs and Expenses
Programming Expenses
Programming expenses, which represent our most significant operating expense, are the fees we incur to provide content to our video customers.
These expenses are affected by the programming license fees charged by cable networks, the fees charged for retransmission of the signals from local broadcast television stations, the number of video customers we serve and the amount of content we provide.
Programming expenses increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to the timing of contract renewals and other increases in programming license fees, including retransmission consent fees and sports programming costs.
We anticipate that our programming expenses will continue to increase as the fees we pay increase, including retransmission consent fees and sports programming costs; as we provide additional content to our video customers; and as we deliver this content through an increasing number of platforms, including On Demand, online and through our mobile apps.
Technical and Product Support Expenses
Technical and product support expenses include costs to complete service call and installation activities, as well as costs for network operations, product development, fulfillment and provisioning.
Technical and product support expenses increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to expenses related to the development, deployment and support of our X1 platform, cloud DVR technology and wireless gateways, and continued growth in business services and security and automation services.
The increase in 2016 was also due to expenses related to investments to improve the customer experience.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
41
Customer Service Expenses
Customer service expenses include the personnel and other costs associated with handling the sale of services to customers and customer service activity.
Customer service expenses remained relatively flat in 2017 primarily due to reduced call volumes, which were partially offset by increased personnel costs.
Customer service expenses increased in 2016 primarily due to increased support for improving the customer experience and increases in total labor costs, which reflected sales and support activities associated with the deployment of our X1 platform and wireless gateways, and growth in business services and security and automation services.
Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses include the costs associated with attracting new customers and promoting our service offerings.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses were relatively flat in 2017 compared to 2016.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses in 2016 included an increase in advertising expenses associated with the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Franchise and Other Regulatory Fees
Cable franchise and other regulatory fees represent the fees we are required to pay to federal, state and local authorities under the terms of our cable franchise agreements.
Franchise and other regulatory fees increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to increases in the revenue to which the fees apply.
Other Operating Costs and Expenses
Other operating costs and expenses remained relatively flat in 2017.
Other operating costs and expenses increased in 2016 primarily due to an increase in costs to support our advertising sales business, as well as an increase in other administrative costs.
Cable Communications Segment – Operating Margin
Our Cable Communications segment operating margin is Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
The most significant operating costs and expenses for our Cable Communications segment are the programming expenses we incur to provide content to our video customers, which increased 11.5% and 10.1% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
We will continue to focus on growing our revenue, particularly in our residential high-speed Internet and video services and in our business services, and on overall operating cost management.
Our Cable Communications segment operating margin was 40.3%, 40.2% and 40.6% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
See Note 3 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements for information on the impact of the adoption, effective January 1, 2018, of the new revenue recognition accounting guidance on our Cable Communication segment revenue and operating margin.
NBCUniversal Segments Overview
2017 NBCUniversal Segments Operating Results(a)
  Revenue Adjusted EBITDA
 (a) Charts exclude the results of NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other, and eliminations.
 42Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
(a)Pro forma adjustments are presented as if the acquisition of the 51% interest of Universal Studios Japan occurred on January 1, 2014.
Pro forma information does not include adjustments for transaction-related costs, costs related to integration activities, or cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses.
The pro forma amounts are primarily based on historical results of operations, adjusted for the allocation of purchase price, and are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated Universal Studios Japan since January 1, 2014, nor of our future results.
Cable Networks Segment Results of Operations
Cable Networks Segment – Revenue
Distribution
Distribution revenue is generated from the distribution of our cable network programming to traditional and virtual multichannel video providers and is affected by the number of subscribers receiving our cable networks and the fees we charge per subscriber.
Distribution revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to increases in the contractual rates charged under distribution agreements and the timing of contract renewals, which were partially offset by revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics and a continued decline in the number of subscribers of multichannel video providers at our cable networks.
Distribution revenue increased in 2016 primarily due to increases in the contractual rates charged under distribution agreements and contract renewals, as well as revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, which were partially offset by a decline in the number of subscribers of multichannel video providers at our cable networks.
Excluding $298 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, distribution revenue increased 6.8% and 5.8% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
43
Advertising
Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising units sold on our cable networks and digital properties.
Advertising revenue is primarily based on the price we charge for each advertising unit, which is generally based on audience ratings, the value of our viewer demographics to advertisers and the number of advertising units we can place in our cable networks’ programming schedules.
Advertising revenue is affected by the audience ratings of our programming, the strength of the national advertising market and general economic conditions.
Advertising revenue decreased in 2017 and increased in 2016 primarily due to revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Excluding $134 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, advertising revenue decreased 1.0% in 2017 and decreased slightly in 2016 as the impact of continued declines in audience ratings at our networks were partially offset by higher prices for advertising units sold.
Content Licensing and Other
Content licensing and other revenue is generated primarily from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally to cable and broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services, as well as from the sale of our owned programming on DVDs and through digital distribution services such as iTunes.
In addition, our cable television studio production operations generate revenue from programming the studio produces for third-party networks and for subscription video on demand services.
Content licensing and other revenue increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, 15%, 14% and 13%, respectively, of our Cable Networks segment revenue was generated from our Cable Communications segment.
These amounts are eliminated in Comcast’s consolidated financial statements but are included in the amounts presented above.
Cable Networks Segment – Operating Costs and Expenses
Programming and Production Costs
Programming and production costs include the amortization of owned and acquired programming, sports rights, direct production costs, residual and participation payments, production overhead, costs associated with the distribution of our programming to third-party networks and other distribution platforms, and on-air talent costs.
Programming and production costs decreased in 2017 primarily due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, which were partially offset by an increase in other sports programming rights costs and higher studio production costs in 2017.
Programming and production costs increased in 2016 primarily due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, as well as an increase in other sports programming rights costs.
Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses
Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses.
These expenses increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to increases in employee-related costs.
Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with promoting programming on our cable networks and digital properties.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses increased in 2017 primarily due to increased spending on marketing related to programming on our cable networks and our new digital platforms.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased in 2016 primarily due to increased spending on marketing in 2015 related to the launch of new programming on our cable networks.
 44Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Broadcast Television Segment Results of Operations
Broadcast Television Segment – Revenue
Advertising
Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising units sold on our broadcast networks, owned local broadcast television stations and digital properties.
Advertising revenue is primarily based on the price we charge for each advertising unit, which is generally based on audience ratings and the value of our viewer demographics to advertisers, and the number of advertising units we can place in our broadcast networks’ and owned local television stations’ programming schedules.
Advertising revenue is affected by the strength of the national and local advertising markets, general economic conditions, cyclicality related to political campaigns and issue-oriented advertising, and the success and ratings of our programming.
Advertising revenue decreased in 2017 and increased in 2016 primarily due to revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Excluding $1.0 billion of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, advertising revenue decreased 2.3% in 2017 as the impact of continued declines in audience ratings were partially offset by higher prices for advertising units sold.
Excluding $1.0 billion and $376 million of revenue associated with our broadcasts of the 2016 Rio Olympics and the 2015 Super Bowl, respectively, advertising revenue increased 7.7% in 2016 as higher prices for advertising units sold, the premiere of Thursday Night Football and higher political advertising were partially offset by a decline in audience ratings.
Content Licensing
Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally to various distribution platforms, including to cable and broadcast networks, and to subscription video on demand services.
In addition, our broadcast television studio production operations develop and produce original content that they license to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations owned by us and third parties, as well as to subscription video on demand services.
The production and distribution costs related to our owned programming generally exceed the revenue generated from the initial network license, which means the subsequent licensing of our owned programming series following the initial network license is critical to their financial success.
Content licensing revenue increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to the timing of content provided under our licensing agreements.
Distribution and Other
We generate distribution and other revenue primarily from fees for retransmission consent of our owned local broadcast television stations and associated fees received from NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations, as well as from the sale of our owned programming on DVDs and through digital distribution services.
The sale of our owned programming is driven primarily by the popularity of our broadcast networks and programming series and therefore fluctuates based on consumer spending and acceptance.
Distribution and other revenue also includes distribution revenue associated with our periodic broadcasts of the Olympic Games.
Distribution and other revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to an increase in fees recognized under our retransmission consent agreements, which was partially offset by $140 million of revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Distribution and other revenue increased in 2016 primarily due to an increase in fees recognized under our retransmission consent agreements, as well as revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
45
Broadcast Television Segment – Operating Costs and Expenses
Programming and Production Costs
Programming and production costs relate to content originating on our broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations, as well as owned content that is licensed to third parties.
These costs include the amortization of owned and acquired programming costs, sports rights, direct production costs, residual and participation payments, production overhead, costs associated with the distribution of our programming to third-party networks and other distribution platforms, and on-air talent costs.
Programming and production costs decreased in 2017 primarily due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, which were partially offset by higher studio production costs, our continued investment in original programming and increases in other sports programming rights costs in 2017.
Programming and production costs increased in 2016 primarily due to costs associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics, as well as our broadcast of Thursday Night Football, which were partially offset by costs in 2015 associated with our broadcast of the 2015 Super Bowl.
Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses
Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses, and these costs increased slightly in 2017.
These costs increased in 2016 primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs.
Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with promoting our owned and acquired television programming, as well as the marketing of DVDs and costs associated with our digital properties.
These expenses increased in 2017 primarily due to increased spending on marketing related to our entertainment and news programming.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased in 2016 primarily due to increased spending in 2015 for marketing of our NBC primetime lineup.
Filmed Entertainment Segment Results of Operations
Filmed Entertainment Segment – Revenue
Theatrical
Theatrical revenue is generated from the worldwide theatrical release of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters and is significantly affected by the timing of each release and the number of films we distribute, as well as their acceptance by audiences.
Theatrical revenue is also affected by the number of exhibition screens, ticket prices, the percentage of ticket sale retention by the exhibitors and the popularity of competing films at the time our films are released.
The success of a film in movie theaters is a significant factor in determining the revenue a film is likely to generate in succeeding distribution platforms.
Theatrical revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to the strong performances of several releases in our 2017 film slate, including The Fate of the Furious, Despicable Me 3 and Fifty Shades Darker.
Theatrical revenue decreased in 2016 primarily due to the strong performance of our larger 2015 film slate, including Furious 7, Jurassic World and Minions, partially offset by the strong performance of The Secret Life of Pets and Sing in 2016.
 46Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Content Licensing
Content licensing revenue is generated primarily from the licensing of our produced and acquired films to cable, broadcast and premium networks, and to subscription video on demand services.
Content licensing revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to the timing of when content was made available under licensing agreements, including content from DreamWorks Animation.
Content licensing revenue increased in 2016 primarily due to the timing of when content, including content related to our 2015 film slate, was made available under licensing agreements.
Home Entertainment
Home entertainment revenue is generated from the sale of our produced and acquired films on DVDs to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services, and in digital formats.
Home entertainment revenue is significantly affected by the timing and number of our releases and their acceptance by consumers.
Release dates are determined by several factors, including the timing of the exhibition of a film in movie theaters, holiday periods and the timing of competitive releases.
The overall DVD market continues to experience declines due to the maturation of the DVD format from increasing shifts in consumer behavior toward digital distribution services and subscription rental services, both of which generate less revenue per transaction than DVD sales, as well as due to piracy.
Home entertainment revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to strong sales of several 2017 releases, including Sing, The Fate of the Furious and Despicable Me 3.
Home entertainment revenue decreased in 2016 primarily due to the strong performance of our releases in 2015, including Minions and Jurassic World.
The decrease in 2016 was partially offset by the home entertainment sales in 2016 of Jason Bourne and The Secret Life of Pets.
Other
We also generate revenue from Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business, the sale of consumer products, the production and licensing of live stage plays, and the distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties.
Other revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to increases in revenue from consumer products, including from DreamWorks Animation, and an increase in revenue from Fandango.
Other revenue increased in 2016 primarily due to an increase in revenue from Fandango.
Filmed Entertainment Segment – Operating Costs and Expenses
Programming and Production Costs
Programming and production costs include the amortization of capitalized film production and acquisition costs, residual and participation payments, and distribution expenses.
Residual payments represent amounts payable to individuals hired under collective bargaining agreements to work on productions and are calculated based on post-theatrical revenue.
Participation payments are primarily based on film performance and represent contingent consideration payable to creative talent, third parties that have entered into cofinancing agreements with us and other parties involved in the production of a film.
The costs associated with producing films have generally increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future.
Programming and production costs increased in 2017 due to higher amortization of film production costs for our 2017 releases, as well as the inclusion of costs associated with DreamWorks Animation.
Programming and production costs decreased in 2016 primarily due to higher amortization of film production costs in 2015 associated with our larger 2015 film slate, which included Furious 7, Jurassic World and Minions.
Other Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses
Other operating and administrative costs and expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other overhead expenses.
Other operating and administrative expenses increased in 2017 primarily due to increases in employee-related costs, as well as the inclusion of a full year of expenses associated with DreamWorks Animation.
Other operating and administrative costs increased in 2016 primarily due to costs attributable to DreamWorks Animation, including $61 million of severance costs.
Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Expenses
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses consist primarily of expenses associated with advertising for our theatrical releases and the marketing of our films on DVDs and in digital formats.
We incur significant marketing expenses before and throughout the release of a film in movie theaters.
As a result, we typically incur losses on a film prior to and during the film’s exhibition in movie theaters and may not realize profits, if any, until the film generates home entertainment and content licensing revenue.
The costs associated with marketing films have generally increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
47
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased in 2017 due to a higher number of releases in 2016.
Advertising, marketing and promotion expenses decreased in 2016 primarily due to higher promotional costs associated with our larger 2015 film slate.
The decrease in 2016 was partially offset due to advertising in 2016 for our domestic and international film slate.
Theme Parks Segment Actual and Pro Forma Results of Operations
(a)Pro forma adjustments are presented as if the acquisition of the 51% interest of Universal Studios Japan occurred on January 1, 2014.
Pro forma information does not include adjustments for transaction-related costs, costs related to integration activities, or cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses.
The pro forma amounts are primarily based on historical results of operations, adjusted for the allocation of purchase price, and are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated Universal Studios Japan since January 1, 2014, nor of our future results.
Theme Parks Segment – Revenue
Our Theme Parks segment revenue is generated primarily from ticket sales and guest spending at our Universal theme parks.
Guest spending includes in-park spending on food, beverages and merchandise.
Guest attendance at our theme parks and guest spending depend heavily on the general environment for travel and tourism, including consumer spending on travel and other recreational activities.
Theme Parks segment revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to increases in guest spending and higher guest attendance driven by the continued success of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter attraction in Hollywood, which opened in April 2016, and the openings of Minion Park in Japan in April 2017 and Volcano Bay in Orlando in May 2017.
Theme Parks segment revenue increased in 2016 compared to the pro forma combined revenue in 2015 primarily due to increases in guest spending and higher guest attendance driven by the successful opening of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter attraction in Hollywood, as well as the positive impact of foreign currency translation due to the strengthening of the Japanese yen.
The strengthening of the Japanese yen accounted for approximately one-third of the increase in revenue for 2016.
Theme Parks Segment – Operating Costs and Expenses
Our Theme Parks segment operating costs and expenses consist primarily of theme park operations, including repairs and maintenance and related administrative expenses; food, beverage and merchandise costs; labor costs; and sales and marketing costs.
Theme Parks segment operating costs and expenses increased in 2017 primarily due to higher operating costs related to higher guest attendance and new attractions, as well as additional marketing costs associated with our domestic theme parks.
Theme Parks segment operating costs and expenses increased in 2016 compared to the pro forma combined operating costs and expenses in 2015 primarily due to additional costs associated with newer attractions, such as The Wizarding World of Harry Potter attraction in Hollywood and Skull Island: Reign of Kong attraction in Orlando, as well as the impact of foreign currency translation due to the strengthening of the Japanese yen.
The strengthening of the Japanese yen accounted for approximately one-third of the increase in Adjusted EBITDA in 2016.
NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other and Eliminations
Headquarters and Other operating costs and expenses incurred by our NBCUniversal businesses include overhead, personnel costs and costs associated with corporate initiatives.
Operating costs and expenses increased in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to higher employee-related costs.
 48Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Corporate and Other Results of Operations
Corporate and Other – Revenue
Other revenue primarily includes revenue from Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses, as well as revenue from other business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that we launched in 2017.
Corporate and Other – Operating Costs and Expenses
Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses primarily include overhead and personnel costs, the costs of other business development initiatives, including our new wireless phone service, and the operations of Comcast Spectacor.
Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses increased in 2017 primarily due to expenses associated with our new wireless phone service and $171 million related to a one-time special cash bonus for eligible employees.
Corporate and Other Adjusted EBITDA excludes $250 million of expense related to a legal settlement in 2017 (see Note 16 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
Corporate and Other operating costs and expenses increased in 2016 due to an increase in expenses related to corporate activities and business development initiatives, including expenses associated with our wireless phone service offering.
Consolidated Total Other Income (Expense)
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased in 2017 primarily due to higher levels of debt outstanding.
Interest expense increased in 2016 primarily due to higher levels of debt outstanding, including the impact of our acquisition of Universal Studios Japan.
Investment Income (Loss), Net
The change in investment income (loss), net in 2017 was not significant.
The change in investment income (loss), net in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in income of certain investments and gains recorded on the sale of certain investments.
The components of investment income (loss), net are presented in a table in Note 7 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements.
Equity in Net Income (Losses) of Investees, Net
The changes in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in 2017 and 2016 were primarily due to our equity method investments in Atairos Group, Inc. and Hulu, LLC.
Atairos, which commenced operations in 2016, follows investment company accounting and records its investments at their fair values each reporting period with the net gains or losses reflected in its statement of income.
We recognize our share of these gains and losses in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net.
The losses at Hulu were driven by its higher programming and marketing costs.
The table below summarizes the equity in net income (losses) of Atairos and Hulu in 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
49
The change in equity in net income (losses) of investees, net in 2016 was also due to an impairment charge related to goodwill recorded by The Weather Channel in 2015.
We recorded expenses of $333 million that represented NBCUniversal’s proportionate share of The Weather Channel impairment charge.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net for 2017 was not significant.
Other income (expense), net for 2016 included $225 million recognized in connection with the settlement of amounts owed to us under an agency agreement that had provided for, among other things, Verizon Wireless’ sale of our cable services and $108 million related to the sale of our investment in The Weather Channel’s product and technology business to IBM.
Other income (expense), net for 2015 included gains of $335 million on the sales of a business and an investment, $240 million recorded on the settlement of a contingent consideration liability with The General Electric Company related to our acquisition of NBCUniversal, and $43 million related to an equity method investment.
These gains were partially offset by $236 million of expenses related to fair value adjustments to a contractual obligation.
Consolidated Income Tax Benefit (Expense)
Income tax benefit (expense) reflects federal and state income taxes and adjustments associated with uncertain tax positions.
Our effective income tax rate in 2017 was a benefit of 49.5%.
Excluding the impacts of the new federal tax reform legislation, our effective income tax rate in 2017 would have been an expense of 33.3%.
Our effective income tax rate in 2016 and 2015 was an expense of 37.0% and 37.1%, respectively.
The income tax benefit in 2017 was primarily driven by the enactment of new federal tax reform legislation in December 2017 (“2017 Tax Act”), partially offset by higher taxable income from operations.
The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, reduces the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a net income tax benefit of $12.7 billion in 2017 primarily related to a reduction of our net deferred tax liability (see Note 14 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
Additionally, in 2017, we prospectively adopted certain provisions of the new accounting guidance related to share-based compensation which resulted in an increase in income tax benefit of $297 million (see Note 3 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
Our income tax benefit also increased $121 million due to the impact of an internal legal reorganization in the third quarter of 2017, which was partially offset by a decrease of $53 million due to changes in state tax laws.
We expect our 2018 annual effective tax rate to be significantly lower than our current year effective tax rate, excluding the impacts of the new federal tax reform legislation, as a result of the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate in the 2017 Tax Act.
Consolidated Net (Income) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Subsidiary Preferred Stock
The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock in 2017 was primarily due to our acquisition of the remaining interests in Universal Studios Japan that we did not already own in April 2017.
The increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock in 2016 was primarily due to NBCUniversal’s acquisition of a 51% interest in Universal Studios Japan in November 2015.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure of performance and is defined as net income attributable to Comcast Corporation before net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable subsidiary preferred stock, income tax benefit (expense), total other income (expense), depreciation and amortization expense, and other operating gains, and excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on the sale of long-lived assets, if any.
From time to time we may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA the impact of events, gains, losses or other charges (such as significant legal settlements) that affect the period-to-period comparability of our operating performance.
This measure eliminates the significant level of noncash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of certain of our businesses and from intangible assets recognized in business combinations.
Additionally, it is unaffected by our capital and tax structures and by our investment activities.
We use this measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of our operating segments and to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments.
It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs.
We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other companies in our industries, although our measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
We reconcile consolidated Adjusted
 50Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
EBITDA to net income attributable to Comcast Corporation.
This measure should not be considered a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net income (loss) attributable to Comcast Corporation, or net cash provided by operating activities that we have reported in accordance with GAAP.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our businesses generate significant cash flows from operating activities.
We believe that we will be able to continue to meet our current and long-term liquidity and capital requirements, including fixed charges, through our cash flows from operating activities; existing cash, cash equivalents and investments; available borrowings under our existing credit facilities; and our ability to obtain future external financing.
We anticipate that we will continue to use a substantial portion of our cash flows in repaying our debt obligations, funding our capital expenditures, investing in business opportunities and returning capital to shareholders.
We also maintain significant availability under our revolving credit facilities and our commercial paper programs to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.
Our commercial paper programs provide a lower-cost source of borrowing to fund our short-term working capital requirements.
See Note 10 and Note 19 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Comcast and NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facilities and the related guarantees.
As of December 31, 2017, amounts available under our consolidated revolving credit facilities, net of amounts outstanding under our commercial paper programs and outstanding letters of credit, totaled $7.4 billion, which included $1.5 billion available under the NBCUniversal Enterprise revolving credit facility.
We, NBCUniversal and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC are subject to the covenants and restrictions set forth in the indentures governing our public debt securities and in the credit agreements governing the Comcast revolving credit facility.
The only financial covenant in the credit facility pertains to leverage, which is the ratio of debt to EBITDA, as defined in the credit facility.
We test for compliance with this financial covenant on an ongoing basis.
As of December 31, 2017, we met this financial covenant by a significant margin.
We do not expect to have to reduce debt or improve operating results in order to continue to comply with this financial covenant.
In addition, the Universal Studios Japan term loans contain certain financial covenants.
As of December 31, 2017, Universal Studios Japan was in compliance with all of these covenants.
Operating Activities
The variance in changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the timing of film and television production spending and related costs, net of amortization; the recognition of deferred revenue associated with our broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics; the payment in 2016 of a tax receivable agreement that DreamWorks Animation entered into with one of its former stockholders; and the launch in 2017 of our wireless phone service offering.
The variance in changes in
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
51
operating assets and liabilities in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to the timing of film and television production spending and related costs, net of amortization, including certain sports programming obligations; the recognition of deferred revenue associated with the broadcast of the 2016 Rio Olympics; an increase in certain benefit payments; and the payment in 2016 of a tax receivable agreement that DreamWorks Animation entered into with one of its former stockholders prior to our acquisition.
The increases in interest payments in 2017 and 2016 were primarily due to higher levels of debt outstanding.
The increase in income tax payments in 2017 was primarily due to higher taxable income from operations and payments associated with tax disputes, offset by tax deductions resulting from our senior notes exchange (see Note 10 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements) and additional depreciation deductions allowed under the 2017 Tax Act (see Note 14 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
The decrease in income tax payments in 2016 was primarily due to taxable losses in 2016 related to the sale of certain investments as well as taxable gains in 2015 related to the sale of businesses and investments partially offset by higher taxable income from operations in 2016.
We expect income tax payments to be significantly lower in 2018 due to the reduction in the federal income tax rate, as well as additional depreciation deductions allowed under the 2017 Tax Act, partially offset by the 2017 tax deductions resulting from the senior notes exchange.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities in 2017 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures, purchases of investments and intangible assets.
Net cash used in investing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures, acquisitions, deposits, purchases of investments and intangible assets.
Net cash used in investing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures, acquisitions, intangible assets and purchases of investments.
Capital Expenditures
Our most significant recurring investing activity has been capital expenditures in our Cable Communications segment, and we expect that this will continue in the future.
The table below summarizes the capital expenditures we incurred in our Cable Communications segment in 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Cable Communications capital expenditures increased 4.7% and 7.9% in 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily due to continued investment in scalable infrastructure to increase network capacity and increased investment in line extensions primarily for the expansion of business services.
The increase in 2017 was partially offset by a decrease in spending on customer premise equipment and support capital.
Capital expenditures in our NBCUniversal segments increased 3.4% to $1.5 billion in 2017 primarily due to continued investment at our Theme Parks segment, which was partially offset by the timing of real estate and infrastructure investment.
Capital expenditures in our NBCUniversal segments increased 4.8% to $1.5 billion in 2016 primarily due to continued investment at our Theme Parks segment.
Our capital expenditures for 2018 are focused on continued investment in scalable infrastructure to increase network capacity; increased investment in line extensions primarily for the expansion of business services; and the continued deployment of wireless gateways, our X1 platform, and cloud DVR technology.
In addition, we expect to continue to invest in existing and new attractions at our Universal theme parks.
Capital expenditures for subsequent years will depend on numerous factors, including acquisitions, competition, changes in technology, regulatory changes, the timing and rate of deployment of new services, the capacity required for existing services, and the timing of new attractions at our theme parks.
We continue to develop a Universal theme park in Beijing, China.
Cash Paid for Intangible Assets
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, cash paid for intangible assets consisted primarily of expenditures for software in our Cable Communications segment.
Acquisitions and Construction of Real Estate Properties
Acquisitions and construction of real estate properties in 2017, 2016 and 2015 primarily included the construction of the Comcast Technology Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
 52Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Acquisitions, Net of Cash Acquired
In August 2016, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of DreamWorks Animation.
In November 2015, NBCUniversal acquired a 51% interest in Universal Studios Japan.
Proceeds from Sales of Businesses and Investments
Proceeds from sales of businesses and investments in 2016 were primarily related to the sale of our investment in The Weather Channel’s product and technology business to IBM.
Proceeds from sales of businesses and investments in 2015 were primarily related to the sale of our investment in TV One, LLC and the sale of a business, CTI Towers Assets I, LLC.
Purchases of Investments
Purchases of investments in 2017 were primarily related to additional capital contributions to Atairos, our investment in Snap Inc. and NBCUniversal’s additional capital contributions to Hulu.
Purchases of investments in 2016 were primarily related to capital contributions to Atairos and NBCUniversal’s additional investment in BuzzFeed, Inc.
Purchases of investments in 2015 were primarily related to NBCUniversal’s investments in Vox Media, Inc. and BuzzFeed.
Deposits
On April 13, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) announced the results of its spectrum auction.
In connection with the auction, we acquired the rights to $1.7 billion of spectrum.
We had previously made a deposit of $1.8 billion to participate in the auction in 2016 and received a refund for amounts in excess of the purchase price in 2017.
Other
Other investing activities in 2017 were primarily related to proceeds of $482 million received by NBCUniversal in the FCC auction for the relinquishment of spectrum rights (see Note 5 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 4 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements).
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities in all years consisted primarily of repayments of debt, repurchases of common stock under our repurchase program and employee plans, and dividend payments, which were partially offset by proceeds from borrowings.
Proceeds from borrowings fluctuate from year to year based on the amounts paid to fund acquisitions and debt repayments.
Net cash used in financing activities in 2017 also included the purchase of the remaining 49% noncontrolling interests in Universal Studios Japan.
Net cash used in financing activities in 2016 also included our purchase of the remaining noncontrolling interest in Comcast Spectacor.
We have made, and may from time to time in the future make, optional repayments on our debt obligations, which may include repurchases or exchanges of our outstanding public notes and debentures, depending on various factors, such as market conditions.
See Note 10 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 10 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for additional information on our financing activities, including details of our debt repayments and borrowings and our exchange of senior notes.
Share Repurchases and Dividends
In 2017, we repurchased a total of 131 million shares of our Class A common stock for $5.0 billion under our share repurchase program authorization.
Effective January 1, 2017, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase program authorization to a total of $12 billion, which does not have an expiration date.
As of December 31, 2017, $7 billion remained under this authorization.
Under the authorization, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in private transactions.
We expect to repurchase at least $5 billion of our Class A common stock during 2018, although the actual repurchase amount may differ depending on market and other conditions.
Our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends totaling $3.0 billion in 2017.
We paid dividends of $2.9 billion in 2017.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors approved a 21% increase in our dividend to $0.76 per share on an annualized basis.
We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.
The chart below summarizes our share repurchases under our publicly announced share repurchase program authorization and dividends paid in 2017, 2016 and 2015.
In addition, we paid $435 million, $352 million and $425 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to employee taxes associated with the administration of our share-based compensation plans.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
53
Share Repurchases Under Share Repurchase Program Authorization and Dividends Paid
(in billions)
Contractual Obligations
Refer to Note 10 and Note 16 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements.
(a)Excludes interest payments.
(b)Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and price provisions.
Our purchase obligations related to our Cable Communications segment and other business development initiatives include programming contracts with cable networks and local broadcast television stations; contracts with customer premise equipment manufacturers; contracts with communications vendors and multichannel video providers for which we provide advertising sales representation; contracts to acquire handsets and other equipment; and other contracts entered into in the normal course of business.
Cable Communications programming contracts include amounts payable under fixed or minimum guaranteed commitments and do not represent the total fees that are expected to be paid under programming contracts, which we expect to be significantly higher because these contracts are generally based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming.
Our purchase obligations related to our NBCUniversal segments consist primarily of commitments to acquire film and television programming, including the U.S. broadcast rights to future Olympic Games through 2032, Sunday Night Football through the 2022-23 season, including two Super Bowl games, the first of which is in 2018, NHL games through the 2020-21 season, Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup games through 2022, U.S broadcast rights to English Premier League soccer games through the 2021-22 season, certain NASCAR events through 2024, and certain PGA TOUR and other golf events through 2030, as well as obligations under various creative talent agreements, including obligations to actors, producers and television personalities, and various other television commitments.
Purchase obligations do not include contracts with immaterial future commitments.
(c)Other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of subsidiary preferred shares; deferred compensation obligations; and postretirement, pension and postemployment benefit obligations.
A contractual obligation with a carrying value of $1.1 billion is not included in the table above because it is uncertain if the arrangement will be settled.
The contractual obligation involves an interest held by a third party in the revenue of certain theme parks.
The arrangement provides the counterparty with the right to periodic payments associated with current period revenue and, beginning in June 2017, the option to require NBCUniversal to purchase the interest for cash in an amount based on a contractual formula.
The contractual formula is based on an average of specified historical theme park revenue at the time of exercise, which amount could be significantly higher than the carrying value.
As of December 31, 2017, the value of the contractual obligation was $1.5 billion, based on inputs to the contractual formula as of that date.
See Note 16 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements for additional information related to this arrangement.
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $809 million and the associated interest and penalties are not included in the table above because it is uncertain if or when these amounts will become payable.
Payments of $2.7 billion of participations and residuals are also not included in the table above because we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which these obligations will be settled.
(d)Our contractual obligations do not include our commitment to invest up to $4 billion at any one time as an investor in Atairos due to our inability to estimate the timing of this funding.
As of December 31, 2017, our remaining commitment is $2.0 billion based on the capital calls received as of that date (see Note 7
 54Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements).
Our contractual obligations do not include certain expenditures related to the construction and development of the Universal Studios theme park in Beijing, China, as these commitments were not executed as of December 31, 2017.
(e)Total contractual obligations are made up of the following components.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 3 to each of Comcast’s and NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for additional information related to recent accounting pronouncements, including the impact of the adoption of the updated accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities.
We base our judgments on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making estimates about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We believe our judgments and related estimates associated with the valuation and impairment testing of our cable franchise rights and the accounting for film and television costs are critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting judgments and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them, which are presented below.
See Notes 9 and 6 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our accounting policies with respect to these items.
Valuation and Impairment Testing of Cable Franchise Rights
Our largest asset, our cable franchise rights, results from agreements we have with state and local governments that allow us to construct and operate a cable business within a specified geographic area.
The value of a franchise is derived from the economic benefits we receive from the right to solicit new customers and to market additional services, such as advanced video services and high-speed Internet and voice services, in a particular service area.
The amounts we record for cable franchise rights are primarily a result of cable system acquisitions.
Typically when we acquire a cable system, the most significant asset we record is the value of the cable franchise rights.
Often these cable system acquisitions include multiple franchise areas.
We currently serve approximately 6,400 franchise areas in the United States.
We have concluded that our cable franchise rights have an indefinite useful life since there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which limit the period over which these rights will contribute to our cash flows.
Accordingly, we do not amortize our cable franchise rights but we assess their carrying values annually, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed the fair value (“impairment testing”).
For the purpose of our impairment testing, we have grouped the recorded values of our various cable franchise rights into our three Cable Communications divisions or units of account.
We evaluate the unit of account periodically to ensure our impairment testing is performed at an appropriate level.
The annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets allows for the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the asset is less than its carrying amount.
An entity may choose to perform the qualitative assessment or an entity may bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test.
If it is determined, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is, more likely than not, less than its carrying value, the quantitative impairment test is required.
When performing a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of our cable franchise rights primarily based on a discounted cash flow analysis that involves significant
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
55
judgment.
When analyzing the fair values indicated under the discounted cash flow models, we also consider multiples of Adjusted EBITDA generated by the underlying assets, current market transactions and profitability information.
In 2017, we performed a qualitative assessment of our cable franchise rights.
At the time of our previous quantitative assessment in 2014, the estimated fair values of our franchise rights exceeded the carrying value in our three Cable Communications divisions by 26%, 42% and 50%, respectively.
We also considered various factors that would affect the estimated fair values of our cable franchise rights in our qualitative assessment in 2017, including changes in our projected future cash flows associated with our Cable Communications segment; market transactions and macroeconomic conditions; weighted-average cost of capital; and an increase in our market capitalization.
Based on this assessment, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair values of our cable franchise rights were higher than the carrying values and that the performance of a quantitative impairment test was not required.
Since the adoption of the accounting guidance related to goodwill and intangible assets in 2002, we have not recorded any significant impairment charges to cable franchise rights.
We could record impairment charges in the future if there are changes in long-term market conditions, in expected future operating results, or in federal or state regulations that prevent us from recovering the carrying value of these cable franchise rights.
Assumptions made about increased competition and economic conditions could also impact the results of any qualitative assessment and the valuations used in future annual quantitative impairment testing and result in a reduction in the fair values of our cable franchise rights.
In addition, a future change in the unit of account could result in the recognition of an impairment charge.
Film and Television Costs
We capitalize film and television production costs, including direct costs, production overhead, print costs, development costs and interest.
We amortize capitalized film and television production costs, including acquired libraries, and accrue costs associated with participation and residual payments to programming and production expenses.
We generally record the amortization and the accrued costs using the individual film forecast computation method, which amortizes the costs using the ratio of the current period’s revenue to estimated total remaining revenue from all sources (“ultimate revenue”).
Estimates of ultimate revenue have a significant impact on how quickly capitalized costs are amortized and, therefore, are updated regularly.
Our estimates of ultimate revenue for films generally include revenue from all sources that are expected to be earned within 10 years from the date of a film’s initial release.
These estimates are based on the historical performance of similar content, as well as factors unique to the content itself.
The most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenue for a film intended for theatrical release is the film’s theatrical performance, as subsequent revenue from the licensing and sale of a film has historically exhibited a high correlation to its theatrical performance.
Upon a film’s release, our estimates of revenue from succeeding markets, including from content licensing across multiple platforms and home entertainment sales, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends.
With respect to television series or other owned television programming, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenue is whether the series can be successfully licensed beyond its initial license.
Initial estimates of ultimate revenue are limited to the amount of revenue contracted for each episode under the initial license.
Once it is determined that a television series or other owned television programming can be licensed for subsequent platforms, revenue estimates for these platforms, such as U.S. and international syndication, home entertainment, and other distribution platforms, are included in ultimate revenue.
Revenue estimates for produced episodes include revenue expected to be earned within 10 years of delivery of the initial episode or, if still in production, 5 years from the delivery of the most recent episode, if later.
We capitalize the costs of programming content that we license but do not own, including rights to multiyear, live-event sports programming, at the earlier of when payments are made for the programming or when the license period begins and the content is made available for use.
We amortize capitalized programming costs as the associated programs are broadcast.
We generally amortize multiyear, live-event sports programming rights using the ratio of the current period revenue to the estimated ultimate revenue or under the terms of the contract.
Capitalized film and television costs are subject to impairment testing when certain triggering events are identified.
If the fair value of a production were to fall below its unamortized cost, we would record an adjustment for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the production’s fair value.
The fair value assessment is generally based on estimated future discounted cash flows, which are supported by our internal forecasts.
Adjustments to capitalized film production costs were not material in any of the periods presented.
 56Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk