Part I
Item 1: Business
We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal.
We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001.
Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963.
Through transactions in 2011 and 2013, we acquired NBCUniversal.
We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks (collectively, the “NBCUniversal segments”).
•Cable Networks: Consists primarily of our national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, our cable television studio production operations, and various digital properties.
•Broadcast Television: Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and various digital properties.
•Filmed Entertainment: Consists primarily of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide; our films are also produced under the Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names.
•Theme Parks: Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan.
Our other business interests consist primarily of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses, and our wireless phone service, which we launched in mid-2017.
For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 17 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements, and Note 15 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Available Information and Websites
Comcast’s phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838.
NBCUniversal’s phone number is (212) 664-4444, and its principal executive offices are located at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10112-0015.
Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on Comcast’s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC.
The information posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings.
The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
1
Description of Our Businesses
Basis of Presentation: Customer metrics include our residential and business customers.
All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts.
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines.
Homes and businesses passed is estimated based on the best available information.
(b)Generally, a home or business receiving video programming from our distribution system counts as one video customer.
For multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”), including buildings located on college campuses, whose residents have the ability to receive additional cable services, such as additional programming choices or our high-definition video (“HD”) or digital video recorder (“DVR”) advanced services, we count and report customers based on the number of potential billable relationships within each MDU.
For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional cable services, the MDU is counted as a single customer.
(d)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed.
(e)Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services.
Beginning in 2017, we include customers subscribing to our security and automation services in customer relationship information.
All periods presented have been adjusted for the inclusion of security and automation customers.
(f)Single product customers, double product customers, and triple and quad product customers represent residential customers that subscribe to one, two, or three and four primary services, respectively.
Cable Services
We offer our video, high-speed Internet, voice, and security and automation services individually and as bundled services at a discounted rate over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers.
Our bundled service offerings aim to meet the needs of the various segments of our customer base, ranging from high-speed Internet services packaged with video or streaming services that include a limited number of channels, to a quad product bundle, consisting of our video, high-speed Internet, voice, and security and automation services.
We also offer our wireless phone service as a component of our bundled services,
 2Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
which is reported in Corporate and Other.
Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive and the types of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis.
A portion of our residential customers are subject to minimum-term contracts for their cable services, which are typically 2 years in length.
Substantially all of our business customers are initially under minimum-term contracts, which typically range from 2 to 5 years.
Customers with minimum-term contracts may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts.
The Areas We Serve
The map below highlights our cable distribution footprint as of December 31, 2017 and the designated market areas (“DMAs”) where we have 250,000 or more customer relationships.
The locations that are bolded represent the DMAs in which we operate that were also included in the top 25 U.S. television DMAs as of December 31, 2017.
Video Services
We offer a broad variety of video services that provide access to hundreds of channels depending on the customer’s level of service.
Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 40 channels to a full service with access to more than 300 channels.
Our video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and national and regional cable networks, as well as government and public access programming.
We also offer packages that include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming and other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and international themes.
We tailor our video services for particular programming preferences, demographics and geographic areas according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements.
Our video customers may also subscribe to premium networks.
Premium networks include networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax that generally provide, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events and concerts, and other features.
Our video services generally include access to our video on demand service (“On Demand”) and an interactive, on-screen program guide.
Our On Demand service provides video customers with over 160,000 programming choices over the course of a month, including approximately 70,000 in high definition.
A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available at no additional charge; other content, primarily movies and special-events programming, such as sporting events and concerts, can be rented or in some cases purchased to own digitally.
We continue to increase the number of On Demand choices we offer.
Our HD service provides customers with high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format through an HD set-top box.
Our HD service includes a broad selection of HD programming choices, including major broadcast networks, national and regional cable networks, and premium networks.
Our DVR service allows video customers to record and store programs
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
3
and play them at whatever time is convenient.
Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind live television.
We refer to our HD and DVR services as “advanced services.”
Our Internet Protocol (“IP”) and cloud-enabled video platform, referred to as our X1 platform, provides customers with integrated search functionality, including the use of a voice-activated remote control, personalized recommendations and access to, and integration of content from, certain third-party Internet applications, such as Netflix and YouTube.
We also offer our cloud DVR technology in substantially all of our markets.
Cloud DVR technology allows our video customers to record programming via their set-top box using cloud-based servers and view those recordings on mobile devices via our mobile apps.
Certain video customers have access to streaming services through our mobile apps and online portal that allow them to view certain live programming and On Demand content and to browse program listings.
Depending on the customer’s level of service, these services may require an additional monthly fee.
We also launched a streaming video cable service throughout our footprint that allows our high-speed Internet customers to purchase our video cable service and stream live programming to a computer, tablet, smartphone or other device for a monthly fee.
High-Speed Internet Services
We offer high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds that range up to 1 gigabit per second (“Gbps”) and fiber-based speeds that range up to 2 Gbps.
These services include access to our online portal and mobile apps, which provide email, an address book, calendars and online security features.
Throughout our footprint, we are deploying wireless gateways that combine a customer’s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter to improve the performance of multiple IP-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network.
Additionally, in 2017, we launched an app allowing customers with eligible wireless gateways to personalize and manage their Wi-Fi network remotely, which includes viewing and changing their Wi-Fi password, identifying which devices are connected to their in-home network, setting parental controls and schedules, as well as other features.
We are expanding our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots to allow most of our high-speed Internet customers to access our high-speed Internet services inside and outside the home.
As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 18.8 million of these hotspots.
Voice Services
We offer voice services using interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology.
Our voice services provide either unlimited or usage-based local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans, voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging, caller ID and call waiting.
For customers with our high-speed Internet services, our voice services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through our online portal or mobile apps.
Business Services
We offer a variety of products and services to businesses.
Our high-speed Internet services for business services customers provide downstream speeds that range up to 1 Gbps and fiber-based speeds that range up to 10 Gbps.
Our small business services offerings primarily include high-speed Internet services, as well as voice and video services, similar to those that we provide to our residential customers, and also include cloud-based solutions that provide file sharing, online backup and web conferencing, among other features.
We also offer Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises, as well as advanced voice services.
In addition, we provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help these customers manage their network bandwidth.
Recently, we have expanded our enterprise service offerings to include a software-defined networking product and our managed solutions business to offer enterprise customers support related to Wi-Fi networks, router management, network security, business continuity risks and other services.
We primarily offer our enterprise service offerings to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of our cable distribution footprint where we have agreements with other companies to use their networks to provide coverage.
Advertising
As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that we sell through our advertising business to local, regional and national advertisers.
In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force.
In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us.
We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets.
In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.
Other
We offer security and automation services that provide home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and room temperature, through our online portal or our mobile apps.
 4Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Technology
Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements.
This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing high-speed Internet services, interactive video services such as On Demand, voice services and security and automation services.
We continue to focus on technology initiatives to design, develop and deploy next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our X1 platform and related cloud DVR technology, that use IP technology and our own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities, including through a voice-activated remote control, and that allow access to certain third-party Internet applications.
We continue to deploy wireless gateways to improve the performance of multiple IP-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and create an in-home Wi-Fi network.
In addition, we continue to expand our network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots.
We are deploying 1 gigabit high-speed Internet services that leverage DOCSIS 3.1 technology across our footprint and we will continue to expand the capacity of our DOCSIS 3.1 infrastructure, including the implementation of DOCSIS FDX that will enable us to launch multi-gigabit services through our existing network.
Sources of Supply
To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable networks and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations.
We attempt to secure long-term programming distribution agreements with these programming providers.
The fees associated with these programming distribution agreements are generally based on the number of customers who are able to watch the programming and the platforms on which we provide the content.
We seek to include in our distribution agreements the rights to offer such programming through multiple delivery platforms, such as through On Demand, our online portal, our mobile apps and our streaming services.
For our high-speed Internet services, we license software products, such as email and security software, and content, such as news feeds for our online portal, from a variety of suppliers.
Under our contracts with these suppliers, we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses.
For our voice services, we license software products such as voicemail and text messaging from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts.
The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the related services.
We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and certain other customer premise equipment, network equipment and services to provide our cable services to residential and business customers.
We use two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our cable services to our residential and business customers.
Customer and Technical Services
Our customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services.
Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system.
Sales and Marketing
We offer our services directly to residential and business customers through our customer service call centers, our retail stores and customer service centers, our websites, door-to-door selling, telemarketing, and third-party outlets, as well as through advertising via direct mail, television and the Internet.
NBCUniversal Segments
Cable Networks
Our Cable Networks segment consists of a diversified portfolio of our national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our cable television studio production operations.
We also own various digital properties, which include brand-aligned websites.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
5
The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks and their advertising reach to U.S. households.
(a)Household data is based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2018 report, which is derived from information available during the period from November 27, 2017 through December 25, 2017, except for The Olympic Channel, which is derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.
The Nielsen report now includes estimates based on subscribers to both traditional and certain virtual multichannel video providers.
The Nielsen report is not based on information provided by us and is included solely to permit comparisons between our cable networks and those operated by our peers.
Our regional sports and news networks together serve more than 28 million households across the United States, including in markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco.
We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United States and internationally to multichannel video providers, including both traditional providers of linear programming and virtual providers who provide streaming services for linear programming.
We also market and distribute our cable network programming to subscription video on demand services, such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix.
These distributors may provide our content on television, including via video on demand services, online and through mobile apps.
Our cable networks produce their own programs or acquire the rights to programming from third parties, including sports programming rights that are discussed below under the heading “Broadcast Television.” Our cable television studio production operations identify, develop and produce original content for our cable networks and third parties.
We license our owned content, including programming from our cable network production operations, to cable and broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services.
We also sell our owned content on standard-definition DVDs and Blu-ray discs (together, “DVDs”) and through digital distribution services such as iTunes.
Broadcast Television
Our Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, which together serve viewers and advertisers in all 50 states.
Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and our various digital properties, which primarily include brand-aligned websites.
NBC Network
The NBC network distributes entertainment, news and sports programming that reaches viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 11 owned NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations.
The NBC network’s programming library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world.
The NBC network produces its own programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties.
NBCUniversal has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming.
Our most significant sports programming commitments include the U.S. broadcast rights for the summer and winter Olympic Games through 2032 and agreements with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and playoff games, including Thursday Night Football through the 2017-18 season, Sunday Night Football through the 2022-23 season and two Super Bowl games, the first of which is in 2018.
We also have U.S. broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season,
 6Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
English Premier League soccer through the 2021-22 season, certain NASCAR events through 2024 and certain PGA TOUR and other golf events through 2030.
NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include the rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including the NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, on our regional sports networks, and online, including through our mobile apps.
Our broadcast television studio production operations develop and produce original content, including scripted and unscripted programming series and talk shows.
This original content is licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations owned by us and third parties, as well as to subscription video on demand services, and it is sold on DVDs and through digital distribution services both in the United States and internationally.
We also produce first-run syndicated shows for local markets that are broadcast on local broadcast television stations in the United States on a market-by-market basis.
We currently distribute some of our television programs after their initial broadcast, as well as older television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market.
NBC Local Broadcast Television Stations
As of December 31, 2017, we owned and operated 11 NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations that collectively reached approximately 32 million U.S. television households, which represent approximately 29% of U.S. television households.
In addition to broadcasting the NBC network’s national programming, our local broadcast television stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming that addresses local needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources.
The table below presents a summary of the NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations that we owned and operated as of December 31, 2017.
(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.
(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season.
(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season.
The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach under the Federal Communications Commission’s (“FCC”) national television ownership cap limits.
See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”
Telemundo
Telemundo is a leading Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally.
Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo network, its 18 owned local broadcast television stations and the NBC Universo national cable network.
The Telemundo network is a leading Spanish-language broadcast network featuring original telenovelas, movies, news, specials and sporting events.
Telemundo develops original programming primarily through its production studio and also acquires the rights to programming from third parties.
It holds the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer through 2026 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for certain NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast through the 2022-23 season.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
7
Telemundo Local Broadcast Television Stations
As of December 31, 2017, Telemundo owned 18 local broadcast television stations, including 17 local broadcast television stations affiliated with the Telemundo network, which collectively reached approximately 60% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2017, and an independent television station in Puerto Rico.
The table below presents a summary of these local broadcast television stations.
(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.
(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 15 million U.S. Hispanic households based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season.
(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2017-18 season.
The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits.
See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”
(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.
Filmed Entertainment
Our Filmed Entertainment segment primarily produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide.
We also generate revenue from Fandango, our movie ticketing and entertainment business, the sale of consumer products, the production and licensing of live stage plays, and the distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties.
We produce films both on our own and jointly with other studios or production companies, as well as with other entities.
Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names.
Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution operations.
We also acquire distribution rights to films produced by others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time.
Our content includes theatrical films, direct-to-video movies and our film library, which is comprised of more than 5,000 movies in a variety of genres.
We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, film cofinancing arrangements with third parties, including both studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions.
These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor.
Investors generally assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.
The majority of our produced and acquired films are initially distributed for exhibition in movie theaters.
After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods.
We distribute our films globally by selling them on DVDs to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services and by selling them through digital distribution services and video on demand services provided by multichannel video providers, including our Cable Communications segment.
We also license our films, including selections from our film library, to cable, broadcast and premium networks, to subscription video on demand
 8Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
services, and to video on demand and pay-per-view services.
The number of films that we license through subscription video on demand services is increasing as consumers continue to seek additional ways to view our content.
Theme Parks
Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan.
Universal Orlando includes two theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure, our water park, Volcano Bay, which opened in May 2017, as well as Universal CityWalk Orlando, a dining, retail and entertainment complex.
Universal Orlando also features on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest.
Our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood, as well as Universal CityWalk Hollywood.
Our Universal theme park in Osaka, Japan consists primarily of Universal Studios Japan.
We continue to expand our theme parks business internationally, such as through our plans to develop a Universal theme park in Beijing, China along with a consortium of Chinese state-owned companies.
In addition, we license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property, and also provide other services, to third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore.
Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in rides, attractions and merchandising.
Corporate and Other
Our other business interests consist primarily of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.
We are also pursuing other business development initiatives, such as our wireless phone service that we launched in the second quarter of 2017 using our virtual network operator rights to provide the service over Verizon’s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots.
We offer the wireless phone service only as part of our bundled service offerings to residential customers that subscribe to our high-speed Internet service within our cable distribution footprint and may in the future also offer wireless phone service to our small business customers on similar terms.
The wireless phone service has success-based working capital requirements, primarily associated with the procurement of handsets, which customers are able to pay for upfront or finance interest-free over 24 months, and other equipment.
Competition
All of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services, and entertainment, news and information products and services, to consumers.
Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and challenging existing business models.
In particular, consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, which has and likely will continue to reduce the number of our video customers and subscribers to our cable networks even as it makes our high-speed Internet services more valuable to consumers.
In addition, the increasing number of entertainment choices available has intensified audience fragmentation, which has and likely will continue to adversely affect the audience ratings of our cable networks and broadcast television programming.
Cable Communications Segment
Competition for our cable services consists primarily of direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers, which have a national footprint and compete in all of our service areas, and phone companies with fiber-based networks, which overlap approximately 60% of our service areas and are continuing to expand the areas they serve.
Many of these competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for these services, individually and in bundles, comparable to what we offer, and some of these traditional competitors also offer smaller online-only video packages.
Many of these competitors also have significant financial resources.
AT&T, which owns DIRECTV, announced in 2016 a proposed merger with Time Warner Inc., a media and entertainment company, which competes with our NBCUniversal businesses.
Current and future wireless Internet services, such as 3G, 4G and 5G wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as customers replace wireline phones with wireless phones and Internet-based phone services such as Skype.
There also continue to be new companies, some with significant financial resources, that offer or are seeking to offer services that potentially may compete with some or all of our cable services.
For example, companies continue to emerge that provide Internet
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
9
streaming and downloading of video programming, some of which charge no fee or a lower fee than our traditional video packages.
Additionally, Google has launched high-speed Internet and video services in a limited number of areas in which we operate.
Video Services
We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:
•DBS providers, including AT&T’s DIRECTV and DISH Network, that transmit satellite signals to substantially all U.S. households to provide video programming and other information similar to our video services
•phone companies, including AT&T and Verizon, that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which overlap a substantial portion of our service areas, and that in some cases offer bundled offerings that include wireless phone services
•online video distributors including:
◦virtual multichannel video providers who offer streaming services for linear programming that generally involve smaller packages of programming networks at prices lower than our traditional video service package offerings
◦subscription video on demand services, such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix, that offer online services and devices that enable Internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming
◦premium, cable and broadcast networks that provide content directly to consumers
•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable operators
•satellite master antenna television systems that offer to their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems and generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments
•other companies, such as local broadcast television stations, that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming, as well as video rental services and home entertainment and gaming products
High-Speed Internet Services
We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, including:
•wireline phone companies and other providers of wireline Internet service
•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service
•municipal broadband networks and power companies
•satellite broadband providers
Phone companies such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Frontier and Verizon have built and are continuing to build fiber-based network infrastructure farther into their networks, which allows them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with traditional digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology, and are offering these higher-speed services in many of our service areas.
Certain companies that offer DSL service have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled services to compete with our high-speed Internet services.
Google has launched a fiber-to-the-home network that provides high-speed Internet services in a limited number of areas in which we operate, and certain municipalities in our service areas are also building fiber-based networks.
Various wireless companies are offering Internet services using a variety of network types, including 3G and 4G, and in the near future 5G, wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks.
These networks work with devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile wireless routers, as well as wireless data cards.
A growing number of commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, also offer Wi-Fi service.
Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks.
The availability of these wireless offerings could negatively impact the demand for our high-speed Internet services.
Voice Services
Our voice services compete with wireline and wireless phone companies, including incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) and competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), and other Internet-based and VoIP service providers.
Certain phone companies,
 10Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
such as the ILECs AT&T and Verizon, have longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way.
A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources.
In addition, we are increasingly competing with other phone service providers as customers replace traditional wireline phone services with wireless and Internet-based phone services.
Business Services
Our business services primarily compete with a variety of phone companies, including ILECs and CLECs.
These companies either operate their own network infrastructure or use all or part of another carrier’s network.
We also compete with satellite operators who offer video services to businesses.
NBCUniversal Segments
Cable Networks and Broadcast Television
Our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks; subscription video on demand services; local broadcast television stations; home entertainment products; pay-per-view and video on demand services; online activities, such as social networking and viewing user-generated content; gaming products; and other forms of entertainment, news and information.
Our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for on-air and creative talent with other cable and broadcast networks, local television stations, and subscription video on demand services.
The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant.
Our cable networks compete with other cable networks and programming providers for carriage of their programming by traditional and virtual multichannel video providers and subscription video on demand services.
Our broadcast networks compete with the other broadcast networks in markets across the United States to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of broadcast network programming to a nationwide audience.
In addition, our cable television and broadcast television studio production operations compete with other production companies and creators of content for the acquisition of story properties, for creative, performing and technical personnel, and for distribution of, and consumer interest in, their content.
Filmed Entertainment
Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment.
Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we produce, their distribution and marketing success, and consumer response.
Our filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, as well as scripts for films.
Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for the exhibition of its films in theaters and the distribution of its films on premium networks and on subscription video on demand services.
Theme Parks
Our theme parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment companies.
We also compete with other providers of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities.
To help maintain the competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and continue to invest in existing and new theme park attractions, hotels and infrastructure.
Advertising
Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as digital, radio and print media.
The willingness of advertisers to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by lower audience ratings at our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations.
Declines in audience ratings also can be caused by increased competition for the leisure time of viewers and by audience fragmentation resulting from the increasing number of entertainment choices available, including content from subscription video on demand services and other online sources.
In addition, advertising revenue is adversely affected by the growing use of technologies, such as DVRs and video on demand services, that give consumers greater flexibility to watch programming on a time-delayed or on-demand basis or to fast-forward or skip advertisements within programming.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
11
Seasonality and Cyclicality
Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations.
See Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and refer to the “Seasonality and Cyclicality” discussion within that section for additional information.
Legislation and Regulation
The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our businesses.
Our businesses are also subject to other regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities and to agreements we enter into with local cable franchising authorities.
In addition, we must comply with provisions of the consent decree entered into in connection with the acquisition of NBCUniversal (the “NBCUniversal Consent Decree”) in September 2011, which is scheduled to expire in September 2018.
The conditions and commitments pursuant to the FCC Order approving the NBCUniversal transaction (“NBCUniversal Order”) expired in January 2018.
Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules or regulations, or interpretations of existing statutes, rules or regulations, or prescribe new ones, any of which may significantly affect our businesses.
The FCC and certain states have been active in considering rulemakings and legislation, and they, along with some state attorney generals, have also been active in conducting inquiries and reviews, regarding our services.
Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions may increase our costs or impose additional restrictions on our businesses, some of which may be significant.
Congress may consider proposals to address communications issues, including whether it should rewrite the entire Communications Act to account for changes in the communications marketplace, whether it should overrule the FCC’s action in 2017 repealing regulation of our broadband Internet access service under Title II of the Communications Act, whether it should enact new, permanent open Internet requirements, and whether it should fund new broadband infrastructure.
We are unable to predict the effects of any of these or any other further legislative requirements on our businesses.
The following paragraphs summarize material existing and potential future legal and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses, although reference should be made to the Communications Act, FCC regulations, the NBCUniversal Consent Decree and other legislation and regulations for further information.
Cable Communications Segment
Video Services
Program Carriage
Cable operators and other multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”) are prohibited from requiring as a condition of carriage a financial interest in, or exclusive distribution rights for, a video programming network.
In addition, FCC regulations prohibit us from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated video programming network to compete fairly by discriminating against the network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for its carriage.
We have been involved in program carriage disputes at the FCC and may be subject to new complaints in the future.
Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent
Cable operators are required to carry, without compensation, programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial broadcast television stations.
As an alternative to this “must-carry” requirement, local broadcast television stations may choose to negotiate with the cable operator for “retransmission consent,” under which the station gives up its must-carry rights and instead seeks to negotiate a carriage agreement with the cable operator, which frequently will involve payments to the station.
We currently pay certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of the stations’ broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to demands for increased payments and other concessions from local broadcast television stations.
In late 2017, the FCC adopted an order relaxing the broadcast media ownership rules and is considering additional revisions to the rules, which could lead to further broadcast television station consolidation.
The FCC also adopted an order authorizing voluntary implementation of a new broadcast technical standard that permits broadcasters to seek carriage of signals using the new standard through retransmission consent.
Together, these actions may impact retransmission consent negotiations and the fees we pay broadcasters.
For information on must-carry and retransmission consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see “NBCUniversal Segments - Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.
 12Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Pricing and Packaging
The FCC’s rate regulations create a presumption that all local communities are subject to effective competition and should no longer be subject to rate regulation that limits prices cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation.
The FCC has accepted a certification from a Massachusetts franchising authority that demonstrated an absence of effective competition in a number of the communities we serve in Massachusetts, allowing for continued rate regulation in those communities.
All of the other areas we serve have unregulated prices.
In addition to the FCC’s rate regulation rules, certain state entities monitor and may challenge the marketing and advertising of our services.
For example, in 2016, the Washington State Attorney General filed a lawsuit, currently being litigated in state court, alleging that our service protection plan, an optional plan that protects customers from incurring charges for service visits to diagnose and repair installed in-home wiring for residential cable services, violates state consumer protection laws.
Pole Attachments
The FCC regulates the rates, terms and conditions that most pole-owning utility companies charge cable operators and telecommunications carriers for allowing attachments to their poles.
States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the rates, terms and conditions of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so.
Most of these states have generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards, which set rates for telecommunications service pole attachments to levels at or near the rates for cable service attachments.
Some municipalities have enacted “one-touch” make-ready pole attachment ordinances, which permit third parties to alter components of our network attached to utility poles in ways that could adversely affect our businesses.
One of these ordinances in a state that has preempted FCC jurisdiction has been upheld by a federal district court in a challenge brought by another provider, but another ordinance in a state that did not preempt FCC jurisdiction has been vacated by a federal district court in a challenge brought by us as inconsistent with the FCC’s pole attachment rules.
In 2017, the FCC initiated a rulemaking that considers amending its pole attachment rules to permit a “one-touch” like make-ready process for the poles within its jurisdiction.
If adopted, these rules could have a similar effect as the municipal one-touch make-ready ordinances and adversely affect our businesses.
Franchising
Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities.
While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions.
Franchising authorities also may establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming.
The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal, including unreasonable renewal conditions.
We believe that our franchise renewal prospects are generally favorable but cannot guarantee the future renewal of any individual franchise.
Approximately half of the states in which we operate provide for statewide franchising or have simplified local franchising requirements for new entrants.
Some allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve.
Certain states allow incumbent cable operators such as us to opt in to the new state franchise immediately or later when a competing state franchise has been issued, although even in those states, incumbent cable operators may be required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new entrant’s state franchise.
High-Speed Internet Services
We provide high-speed Internet services to our customers.
Many of these services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations described below.
As an Internet service provider (“ISP”), we are also subject to a requirement to implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.
From time to time, the FCC considers imposing new regulatory obligations on ISPs.
New broadband regulations, if adopted, may have adverse effects on our businesses.
Open Internet Regulations
We have committed to be bound by “open Internet” regulations enacted by the FCC in 2010 as a condition of the NBCUniversal Consent Decree until September 2018, even though some of the rules were subsequently overturned on appeal.
As a result, we are prohibited from blocking access to lawful Internet content, applications, services or non-harmful devices and unreasonably discriminating in the transmission of lawful Internet traffic.
In addition, under the FCC’s 2010 transparency rule that was upheld on appeal, we are required to disclose our network management practices, performance and commercial terms of our Internet services.
In addition to the commitments made as part of the NBCUniversal acquisition, we have publicly committed to not block, throttle, or discriminate against lawful Internet traffic and to be transparent with our customers about our Open Internet practices.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
13
In 2015, the FCC reclassified broadband Internet access service as a “telecommunications service” subject to new open Internet regulations and certain common carrier regulations under Title II of the Communications Act.
These included, among other things, prohibiting ISPs from blocking access to lawful content; impairing or degrading lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications or services (“throttling”); prioritizing certain Internet traffic in exchange for consideration (“paid prioritization”); and generally prohibiting ISPs from unreasonably interfering with or unreasonably disadvantaging consumers’ ability to access and use the lawful Internet content, applications, services or devices of their choosing or edge providers’ ability to make lawful content, applications, services or devices available to consumers (“general conduct”).
In December 2017, the FCC adopted an Order eliminating Title II regulation of broadband Internet access service, as well as its prior no-blocking, no-throttling, no paid-prioritization and general conduct rules, stating that jurisdiction to regulate ISP conduct would rest at the FTC.
In addition, the Order revised the transparency rule to require ISPs to disclose any blocking and throttling practices, and any paid prioritization practices associated with their broadband offerings; the FCC retained authority to enforce compliance with the transparency rule.
Accordingly, after the Order goes into effect, ISP conduct will be subject to review by the FTC; the FTC will be able to enforce the public commitments we have made to not block, throttle or discriminate against lawful Internet traffic; and the FCC will enforce compliance with its new transparency rule.
The Order also preempted any state and local laws and regulations that conflict with the FCC’s deregulatory policies.
Certain parties have already indicated they intend to appeal the FCC’s Order in federal court.
In addition, Congress may consider legislation addressing these regulations and the classification of broadband Internet access services and legislators in numerous states have stated that they will introduce legislation to impose Open Internet protections in a variety of ways.
We cannot predict whether or how the rules might be changed, the impact of potential new legislation or the outcome of any litigation.
Broadband Deployment/Infrastructure Initiatives
In 2017, the FCC initiated proceedings intended to remove barriers to deploying next-generation wireless and wireline broadband infrastructure.
These proceedings may result in changes to the FCC’s rules related to the deployment of broadband infrastructure, as well as preemption of any state and local laws or regulations that may unreasonably impede the deployment of broadband infrastructure.
We cannot predict whether or how any FCC rules might be changed, how state or local laws or regulations may be impacted or how such changes may affect our business.
NBCUniversal Consent Decree
The NBCUniversal Consent Decree includes various conditions requiring us to maintain a broadband Internet access service of at least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our footprint, and to avoid discrimination in how we treat “specialized services” (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our broadband Internet access service, but not including our broadband Internet access service, video services or voice services).
Municipally Owned Broadband Networks
A number of local municipalities operate municipally owned broadband networks and there may be further efforts by local governments to expand or create government-owned networks.
Certain states have enacted laws that restrict or prohibit local municipalities from operating municipally owned broadband networks, and there may be efforts in other state legislatures to restrict the development of government-owned networks, although some may choose to ease or facilitate such networks.
In addition, as part of any federal infrastructure program, governmental subsidies or funding of additional Internet broadband networks may be encouraged.
We cannot predict how successful those efforts will be and how they might affect our business.
Voice Services
We provide voice services using VoIP technology.
The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours, including regulations relating to privacy of customer proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, law enforcement assistance, outage reporting, Universal Service Fund contribution obligations, rural call completion, back-up power, service discontinuance and certain regulatory filing requirements.
The FCC has not yet ruled on whether VoIP services such as ours should be classified as an “information service” or a “telecommunications service” under the Communications Act.
The classification determination is important because telecommunications services are regulated more extensively than information services.
State regulatory commissions and legislatures may continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our voice services as long as the regulatory classification of VoIP remains unsettled at the federal level.
Voice Interconnection
Because the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of our voice services, providers of VoIP services typically either secure CLEC authorization or obtain interconnection to traditional wireline phone company networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, which has the right, as a telecommunications carrier, to request and obtain interconnection with the traditional wireline phone companies.
We have arranged for such interconnection rights through affiliated CLECs.
If a regulatory or judicial
 14Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
authority were to deny our ability to interconnect through one of our affiliated CLECs, our ability to provide voice services and compete in the area in question would be negatively impacted.
The FCC regulates the arrangements by which telecommunications carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic and has affirmed the right of CLECs to collect intercarrier compensation when providing interconnection for VoIP providers.
Wireless Service
In 2017, we began offering a wireless voice and data service.
We offer this service using our mobile virtual network operator (“MVNO”) rights to provide the service over Verizon’s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots.
MVNOs are subject to many of the same FCC regulations as facilities-based wireless carriers (e.g., E911 services, local number portability, etc.
), as well as certain state or local regulations.
The FCC or other regulatory authorities may adopt new or different regulations for MVNOs and/or mobile broadband providers in the future, or impose new taxes or fees, which could adversely affect our wireless phone service offering or our business generally.
Universal Service
The federal Universal Service program generally requires us and other phone service providers to pay a fee based on revenue from their interstate and international services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of voice services and broadband-capable voice networks in high-cost areas, the provision of voice services to low-income consumers, and the provision of Internet, voice and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers.
Some states also have analogous programs that support service in high-cost areas or to low-income consumers.
The FCC has long considered implementing changes to the Universal Service program, such as changing the fee calculation from a revenue-based formula to a per-user fee or per-connection fee, adopting a fee based on bandwidth and expanding the services subject to the fee to include broadband Internet access services.
We are unable to predict if or how the FCC may change the Universal Service program, or the effects any such changes would have on our businesses.
The FCC recently has shifted its focus away from supporting traditional telephone service, and toward subsidizing deployment of broadband-capable networks and broadband facilities.
This shift could assist some of our competitors.
For example, the FCC has revised the high-cost federal Universal Service mechanism to support broadband-capable networks and substantially has revised the program that provides Universal Service support for services to schools and libraries to begin phasing out support for voice services, with greater support directed to broadband services and the deployment of Wi-Fi networks.
Similarly, the FCC has expanded its Lifeline subsidy program for low-income consumers to include broadband services in addition to voice services.
The FCC or Congress may revisit these subsidy programs and how they are funded.
We cannot predict whether or how these programs will be changed in the future.
NBCUniversal Segments
Cable Networks
Program Access
The Communications Act and FCC regulations generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable operators from favoring cable operators over competing MVPDs.
The FCC and Congress have considered proposals that would require companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of their networks available individually when negotiating distribution agreements with MVPDs and potentially with online video distributors.
We currently offer our cable networks both on a bundled basis and, when requested, individually.
Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances.
For further discussion of these conditions, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Internet Distribution” discussion within that section.
Children’s Programming
Under federal regulations, the amount of commercial content that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age is limited, and certain television station programming must serve the educational and informational needs of children under 17 years of age.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
15
Broadcast Television
Licensing
Local broadcast television stations may be operated only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license will serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.
The FCC grants broadcast television station licenses for specific periods of time, which may be renewed with or without conditions.
Substantially all of our broadcast television station licenses have pending applications for renewal, although our stations’ authority to operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is under review.
Several of these applications have been opposed by third parties.
Although our licenses have been renewed in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain renewal grants.
Ownership Limits
FCC regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have “attributable interests” above specific ownership levels in local television stations.
In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order eliminating certain limitations on ownership of television stations and other specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross-ownership of broadcast television stations and newspapers in the same market.
Elimination of these limits is subject to judicial appeal.
In 2018, the FCC is expected to initiate its quadrennial review of its media ownership regulations.
Local Television Ownership
The FCC recently revised its rules to generally permit a licensee to own up to two broadcast stations in the same DMA as long as at least one of the stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the DMA based on audience share.
In addition, the new rules permit a licensee to own up to two stations ranked in the top four in a DMA based on a case-by-case analysis of the circumstances surrounding the proposed combination.
These recent changes are subject to judicial appeal.
These ownership restrictions do not apply if the signal coverage of the stations involved do not overlap in the same market.
National Television Ownership
The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of broadcast television stations one entity may own or control nationally.
No entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households.
The FCC also has a rule that affords a 50% discount to UHF stations (channels 14 and above) in calculating the extent of an individual station owner’s holdings under the national cap.
The FCC has initiated a proceeding to consider whether to retain the 50% discount and whether to modify the national television ownership limit.
Our owned broadcast television station reach does not exceed the current limit even without considering the discount for UHF stations, but elimination of the 50% discount without an increase in the 39% national cap would place us closer to the national cap and limit our flexibility to acquire stations in the future.
Foreign Ownership
The Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast television station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership, although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest.
Dual Network Rule
Each of the four major broadcast television networks - ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC - is prohibited from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.
Must Carry/Retransmission Consent
Every three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must carry or retransmission consent.
A similar regulatory scheme applies to satellite providers.
For the current three-year period, which commenced on January 1, 2018, all of our owned NBC broadcast television stations and our owned Telemundo broadcast television stations elected retransmission consent.
Internet Distribution
The NBCUniversal Consent Decree establishes certain obligations and restraints concerning distribution of our content online.
We must make available certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes over access to such programming.
We are one of four owners of Hulu, but we have no voting rights or board representation under the terms of the NBCUniversal Consent Decree.
We have entered into license agreements with Hulu on substantially the same terms as its other owners.
 16Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Indecency
A federal statute and FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local broadcast television stations included indecent or profane material.
Filmed Entertainment
Our filmed entertainment business is subject to “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures.
In countries outside the United States, a variety of existing or contemplated laws and regulations may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and television products, as well as consumer merchandise products.
The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements.
Theme Parks
Our theme parks are subject to various regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, as well as liquor licenses.
Other Areas of Regulation
Intellectual Property
Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other proprietary-rights laws of the United States and other countries help protect our intellectual property rights.
In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents challenges for our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses.
The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our content.
The extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial.
Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our programming.
While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as do technologies used to evade these laws.
We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content.
The repeal of laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect their value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights.
Copyright laws also require that we contribute a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool in exchange for retransmitting copyrighted material in broadcast signals under a compulsory license and that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems, as well as in the content we create.
The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, while the royalties we contribute to the copyright royalty pool for broadcast signals can be challenged by copyright owners in annual audits, and we cannot predict what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.
In addition, the Copyright Office has initiated a rulemaking to consider how royalty payments to content owners are calculated under the compulsory license.
We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking, but there is a risk that it could result in higher royalty payments to content owners.
Furthermore, in response to a 2014 FCC decision eliminating the FCC’s “sports blackout” rule, which previously enabled sports teams to insist that cable operators black out sports events not available on local broadcast signals, the leading sports leagues petitioned the Copyright Royalty Board to impose a copyright surcharge on cable operators to compensate sports teams for the loss of programming exclusivity, and that proceeding is now pending.
There has been litigation related to a number of online entities that stream our broadcast television content online without the consent of, or compensation to, NBC or its affiliates.
In 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that one such entity, Aereo, violated broadcasters’ exclusive right to perform their copyrighted works publicly.
Subsequently, Aereo sought to operate as a cable system under the Copyright Act.
Although the U.S.
Copyright Office rejected its application for a compulsory copyright license, other companies have sought legislation or court rulings to obtain a compulsory license to stream broadcast programming online.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
17
Privacy and Data Security Regulation
The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators, except for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests.
We are also subject to various state and federal regulations that provide privacy protections for customer proprietary network information related to our voice services.
The FCC’s 2017 decision to reclassify broadband Internet access service as an “information service” has the effect of reinstating the FTC’s authority to regulate ISPs’ privacy protections and their use and disclosure of certain customer information.
The FTC generally exercises oversight of consumer privacy protections by using its enforcement authority over unfair and deceptive acts or practices to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers.
One court decision from a panel of judges in the Ninth Circuit has raised questions regarding the extent of FTC jurisdiction over companies like us, whose service offerings include some common carrier services as well as non-common carrier services.
However, that panel’s decision is not in effect and has no precedential effect, pending a final decision from the full Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals after a rehearing en banc.
Numerous states and localities, in response to congressional action in 2017 to rescind new ISP privacy rules adopted by the FCC regarding the use and disclosure of certain customer information, have considered legislative or other action that would impose new requirements on our collection, use and disclosure of certain customer information.
The FCC’s 2017 Open Internet Order, however, contained broad preemption language that preempts state and local regulations that conflict with federal deregulatory policy, which these state and local efforts may do.
We expect these efforts to continue in 2018, although we cannot predict whether such efforts will be successful or preempted, or if successful, how any new requirements may affect our business.
We are also subject to stringent data security and data retention requirements that apply to website operators and online services directed to children under 13 years of age, or that knowingly collect or post personal information from children under 13 years of age.
Other privacy-oriented laws have been extended by courts to online video providers and are increasingly being used in privacy lawsuits, including class actions, against providers of video materials online.
We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial emails, as well as FCC regulations relating to automated telemarketing calls, texts and SMS messages.
The FTC and state attorneys general also have initiated efforts to increase and enforce transparency requirements about the collection and use of consumer information, even in an aggregated, non-customer-identifiable form, which may require ongoing review of new and rapidly evolving technologies and methods for delivering content and advertising to ensure that appropriate notice is given to consumers and consent is obtained where required.
We are also subject to state and federal laws and regulations regarding data security that primarily apply to sensitive personal information that could be used to commit identity theft.
Most states have security breach notification laws that generally require a business to give notice to consumers and government agencies when certain information has been disclosed to an unauthorized party due to a security breach, and the FCC has adopted security breach rules for voice services.
Several states have also enacted general data security requirements to safeguard consumer information, including the proper disposal of consumer information.
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”), in cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure, including us, have developed a voluntary framework that provides a prioritized, flexible, repeatable, performance-based and cost-effective approach to cybersecurity risk.
It is a compendium of existing cross-sector cyber-defense processes, practices and protocols that can help companies identify, assess and manage their cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and several government agencies have encouraged compliance with this framework.
NIST recently proposed draft updates to this voluntary framework and is currently reviewing feedback on the draft.
There are pending federal legislative proposals that, if enacted, could create new online consumer privacy protections or impose new requirements on owners and operators of critical infrastructure, including us.
We cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted and, if so, the impact of any such laws on our business.
FCC Spectrum Auction and Repacking
Congress authorized the FCC to conduct an auction to repurpose some broadcast spectrum to mobile broadband use.
In this auction, the FCC offered licensees of full-power and Class A television stations the opportunity to sell some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for cash, and it repackaged those spectrum rights and sold new licenses to wireless providers who can use them for mobile broadband services.
In the auction, NBCUniversal sold broadcast spectrum rights associated with television stations in three of its markets, receiving proceeds of approximately $482 million.
Those stations, which must vacate their current channels by April 23, 2018, will continue to operate by sharing channels with other NBCUniversal stations in those markets.
The FCC assigned 19 of NBCUniversal’s other television stations that did not sell their spectrum rights to new channels; those stations will have to transition to their new channels in a post-auction repacking process that is scheduled to conclude in the third quarter 2020
 18Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
and the FCC will reimburse those stations for a portion of their reasonable relocation costs (subject to a nationwide aggregate limit of $1.75 billion).
As a result of the repacking process, Comcast will have to make changes to its cable systems to accommodate broadcasters on their newly assigned channels, and will be reimbursed by the FCC for a portion of those related costs (subject to a nationwide aggregate limit of $1.75 billion).
In addition, we acquired 73 new mobile broadband licenses in this auction for $1.7 billion.
We will be obligated to meet certain regulatory requirements concerning the use of these licenses over the coming years.
FCC 5G Spectrum Proceedings and Other Wireless Regulations
In three separate regulatory proceedings, the FCC is currently considering establishing and/or modifying its rules to make available large amounts of spectrum that will likely be used to provide the next generation of commercial wireless broadband services, both fixed and mobile, commonly referred to as 5G services.
Some of this spectrum is currently used for satellite delivery of cable programming to cable headends, including our own, and there is a risk that such satellite delivery could be disrupted if the FCC were to adopt some of the proposals raised in these proceedings.
There is also a risk that the FCC could adopt proposals that favor certain business models over others in the 5G marketplace, thereby limiting potential business opportunities for us in the future.
In addition, there is potential for new legislation or FCC regulations that could enable wireless providers to offer video and other services over their networks subject to different, and possibly fewer, regulatory obligations than the services we provide.
We cannot predict what rules or legislation, if any, will ultimately be adopted or how any such changes would affect our businesses.
State and Local Taxes
Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing, through both legislative and administrative channels, new or additional taxes or fees on, or limiting or eliminating incentives or credits earned or monetized by, the businesses operated by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes, fees, incentives or credits are computed, earned or monetized.
These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax and taxes and fees on the businesses operated or services provided by our Cable Communications and NBCUniversal segments.
In some situations, DBS providers and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet connection do not face the same state tax and fee burdens.
Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar or limit states from imposing taxes on these DBS providers or other competitors that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.
The Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits most states and localities from imposing sales and other taxes on our Internet access charges, was made permanent by 2016 legislation; however, some jurisdictions have or may assert that certain taxes akin to right-of-way fees are not preempted by Internet Tax Freedom Act.
Environmental Matters
Certain of our business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations since they involve air emissions, wastewater discharges and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances.
Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities.
Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new regulations could impact our operations or costs.
Other Regulations
Federal regulators actively regulate other aspects of our businesses, including accessibility to our video and voice services and broadcast television programming for people with disabilities, customer service standards, inside wiring, cable equipment, leased access, loudness of commercial advertisements, advertising, Emergency Alert System, equal employment opportunity, lottery programming, recordkeeping and public file access requirements, regulatory fees and technical standards relating to the operation of cable systems and television stations.
We are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in us having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other sanctions.
We also are subject to various international regulations, including those that cover television broadcasting, programming and advertising.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 164,000 full-time and part-time employees calculated on a full-time equivalent basis.
Of these employees, approximately 91,000 and 62,000 were associated with our cable communications business and our NBCUniversal businesses, respectively.
We also use freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
19
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions.
In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance.
In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words.
You should be aware that these statements are only our predictions.
In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.
Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment.
This environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights.
Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Item 1A: Risk Factors