Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Interest Rate Risk Management
We maintain a mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt and we are exposed to the market risk of adverse changes in interest rates.
In order to manage the cost and volatility relating to the interest cost of our outstanding debt, we enter into various interest rate risk management derivative transactions in accordance with our policies.
We monitor our exposure to the risk of adverse changes in interest rates through the use of techniques that include market valuation and sensitivity analyses.
We do not engage in any speculative or leveraged derivative transactions.
Our interest rate derivative financial instruments, which may include swaps, rate locks, caps and collars, represent an integral part of our interest rate risk management program.
Comcast’s interest rate derivative financial instruments reduced the portion of Comcast’s total consolidated debt at fixed rates as of December 31, 2017 to 86.8% from 89.5%.
As of December 31, 2017, NBCUniversal had no outstanding interest rate derivative financial instruments.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, the effect of our interest rate derivative financial instruments was to decrease Comcast’s consolidated interest expense by $23 million, $36 million and $62 million, respectively.
The effect of NBCUniversal’s interest rate derivative financial instruments was not material to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for any period presented.
Interest rate derivative financial instruments may have a significant effect on Comcast’s interest expense in the future.
The table below summarizes as of December 31, 2017 by contractual year of maturity the principal cash flows, notional amounts, fair values and contract terms of financial instruments subject to interest rate risk maintained by us.
We use the notional amount of each interest rate derivative financial instrument to calculate the interest to be paid or received.
The notional amounts do not represent our exposure to credit loss.
The estimated fair value approximates the amount of payments to be made or proceeds to be received to settle the outstanding contracts, including accrued interest.
We estimate interest rates on variable rate debt and swaps using the relevant average implied forward rates through the year of maturity based on the yield curve in effect on December 31, 2017, plus the applicable borrowing margin.
See Note 2 to each of Comcast’s and NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements for additional information on our accounting policies for derivative financial instruments.
Foreign Exchange Risk Management
NBCUniversal has significant operations in a number of countries outside the United States, and certain of NBCUniversal’s operations are conducted in foreign currencies.
The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar.
These changes could adversely affect the U.S. dollar equivalent value of our non-U.S. dollar revenue and operating costs and expenses and reduce international demand for our content, all of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in a given period or in specific territories.
As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, NBCUniversal enters into derivative financial instruments related to a significant portion of its foreign currency exposure for transactions denominated in other than the functional currency.
NBCUniversal enters into foreign currency forward contracts that change in value as currency exchange rates fluctuate to protect the functional currency equivalent value of non-functional currency denominated assets, liabilities, commitments, and forecasted non-functional currency revenue and expenses.
In accordance with
Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
57
our policy, NBCUniversal hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions for periods generally not to exceed 18 months.
In certain circumstances, NBCUniversal enters into foreign exchange contracts with initial maturities in excess of 18 months.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, NBCUniversal had foreign exchange contracts with a total notional value of $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the aggregate estimated fair value of these foreign exchange contracts was not material.
We have analyzed our foreign currency exposure related to NBCUniversal’s operations as of December 31, 2017, including our hedging contracts, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than their functional currency.
For those assets and liabilities, we then evaluated the effect of a 10% shift in currency exchange rates between the functional currency and the U.S. dollar.
Our analysis of such a shift in exchange rates indicated that it would not have a material effect on our 2017 net income attributable to Comcast Corporation.
In addition, the impact of fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar for our non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in 2017.
Comcast is also exposed to the market risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates as they relate to its foreign currency denominated debt obligations.
We use cross-currency swaps for foreign currency denominated debt obligations when those obligations are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency.
Cross-currency swaps effectively convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt in order to hedge the risk that the cash flows related to annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
The gains and losses on the cross-currency swaps offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair value of our cross-currency swaps on our £625 million principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2029 was a liability of $80 million and $189 million, respectively.
Counterparty Credit Risk Management
Comcast and NBCUniversal manage the credit risks associated with our derivative financial instruments through diversification and the evaluation and monitoring of the creditworthiness of counterparties.
Although we may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we do not expect such losses, if any, to be significant.
Comcast has agreements with certain counterparties that include collateral provisions.
These provisions require a party with an aggregate unrealized loss position in excess of certain thresholds to post cash collateral for the amount in excess of the threshold.
The threshold levels in our collateral agreements are based on our and the counterparty’s credit ratings.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, Comcast was not required to post collateral under the terms of these agreements.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we did not hold any collateral under the terms of these agreements.
 58Comcast 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Item 8: Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data