PART I
ITEM 1 — BUSINESS
Business
Dell Technologies is a strategically aligned family of businesses, poised to become the essential infrastructure company, from the edge to the core to the cloud, as we continue our mission to advance human progress through technology.
We seek to accomplish this by executing two, related, high-level strategic initiatives: helping our customers transform their businesses through digital, IT, workforce, and security transformation, while extending our many leading market positions in client solutions and IT infrastructure.
Dell Technologies brings together the entire infrastructure from hardware to software to services.
The core of IT is evolving in our hyper-connected world, containing both centralized data centers and geographically distributed hyper-converged infrastructure.
Dell Technologies is a leader in the traditional technology of today and a leader in the cloud-native infrastructure of tomorrow.
Through our recent combination with EMC, Dell Technologies offers next-generation solutions through our Client Solutions Group, Infrastructure Solutions Group, VMware, Inc. (NYSE: VMW), RSA Information Security ("RSA"), SecureWorks Corp. ("SecureWorks"), Pivotal Software, Inc. ("Pivotal"), Boomi, Inc. ("Boomi"), and Virtustream, Inc. ("Virtustream").
Our solutions enable digital transformation and encompass software-defined data centers, all-flash arrays, hybrid cloud, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, cloud-native software application development tools, mobile, and security solutions.
In addition, we provide important value differentiators through our extended warranty and delivery offerings, and software and peripherals, which are closely tied to the sale of our hardware products.
Dell Technologies is committed to its customers.
As we innovate to make our customers' existing IT increasingly productive, we help them reinvest their savings into the next generation of technologies that they need to succeed in the digital economy.
We are positioned to help customers of any size and are differentiated by our practical innovation and efficient, simple, and affordable solutions.
During Fiscal 2018, we celebrated the one year anniversary of our historic merger with EMC, and recognize the many accomplishments we have made since the merger.
These accomplishments include the broad expansion of our product portfolio, integration of our supply chain, and achievement of revenue synergies across the business.
With these accomplishments, we believe we are well-positioned for long-term sustainable growth and innovation.
As we continue our integration of the EMC acquired businesses, we remain committed to our customers, supporting them with outstanding solutions, products, and services.
We will continue our focus on building superior customer relationships through our direct model and our network of channel partners, which includes value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers.
We also will continue to balance our efforts to drive cost efficiencies in the business with strategic investments in areas that will enable growth, such as our sales force, marketing, and research and development, as we seek to strengthen our position as a leading global technology company poised for long-term sustainable growth and innovation.
Products and Services
We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products and services.
We are organized into the following business units, which are our reportable segments: Client Solutions Group; Infrastructure Solutions Group; and VMware.
•Client Solutions Group ("CSG") — Offerings by CSG include branded hardware, such as personal computers ("PCs"), notebooks, and branded peripherals, such as monitors and projectors, as well as third-party software and peripherals.
5
Our computing devices are designed with our commercial and consumer customers' needs in mind, and we seek to optimize performance, reliability, manageability, design, and security.
In addition to our traditional PC business, we also have a portfolio of thin client offerings that is well-positioned to benefit from the growth trends in cloud computing.
CSG hardware and services also provide the architecture to enable the Internet of Things and connected ecosystems to securely and efficiently capture massive amounts of data for analytics and actionable insights for commercial customers.
CSG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services.
Approximately 50% of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA") and in Asia Pacific and Japan ("APJ").
•Infrastructure Solutions Group ("ISG") — EMC's Information Storage segment and our existing Enterprise Solutions Group were combined in Fiscal 2017 to create the Infrastructure Solutions Group.
ISG enables the digital transformation of our enterprise customers through our trusted cloud and big data solutions, which are built upon a modern data center infrastructure.
The comprehensive portfolio of advanced storage solutions includes traditional storage solutions as well as next-generation storage solutions (including all-flash arrays, scale-out file, object platforms, and software-defined solutions).
The server portfolio includes high-performance rack, blade, tower, and hyperscale servers.
The networking portfolio helps our business customers transform and modernize their infrastructure, mobilize and enrich end-user experiences, and accelerate business applications and processes.
Strengths in core server and storage solutions enable us to offer leading converged and hyper-converged solutions, which allow our customers to accelerate their IT transformation by acquiring scalable integrated IT solutions instead of building and assembling their own IT platforms.
ISG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services.
ISG includes Virtustream product and service offerings.
Virtustream's cloud software and infrastructure-as-a-service solutions enable customers to migrate, run, and manage mission-critical applications in cloud-based IT environments, and represent a key element of our strategy to help customers support their applications in a variety of cloud native environments.
Beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, we will no longer manage Virtustream within ISG and, as such, will report Virtustream results within other businesses, rather than within ISG.
This change in reporting structure will not impact our previously reported consolidated financial results, but our prior period segment results will be recast to reflect the change.
Approximately 50% of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ.
•VMware — The VMware reportable segment ("VMware") reflects the operations of VMware, Inc. (NYSE: VMW) within Dell Technologies.
See Exhibit 99.1 filed with this report for further details on the differences between VMware reportable segment results and VMware, Inc. results.
VMware provides compute, cloud, mobility, networking and security infrastructure software to businesses that provides a flexible digital foundation for the applications that empower businesses to serve their customers globally.
VMware has continued to broaden its product and solution offerings beyond compute virtualization to include offerings that allow organizations to manage IT resources across private clouds and complex multi-cloud, multi-device environments by leveraging synergies across three categories: software-defined data center; hybrid cloud computing; and end-user computing.
VMware's software-defined data center includes the fundamental compute layer for the data center (vSphere); storage and availability to offer cost-effective holistic data storage and protection options (vSAN); network and security (VMware NSX); and cloud management and automation (vRealize) products.
VMware currently enables its customers to run, manage, connect, and secure applications across private and public clouds (VMware Cloud).
During Fiscal 2018, VMware entered into a strategic alliance with Amazon Web Services ("AWS") to offer an integrated hybrid offering, VMware Cloud on AWS.
VMware Cloud on AWS enables customers to run applications across vSphere-based private, public, and hybrid cloud environments.
VMware's end-user computing offerings (such as Workspace ONE) enable IT organizations to enhance enterprise security for corporate applications, data, and endpoints for their end users by leveraging VMware's software-defined data center solutions to extend the value of virtualization and management from data centers to devices.
Approximately 50% of VMware revenue is generated by sales to customers in the United States.
6
Our other businesses, described below, consist of product and service offerings of RSA, SecureWorks, Pivotal, and Boomi.
These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively, as the results of the businesses are not material to our overall results and the businesses do not meet the criteria for reportable segments.
•RSA provides essential cybersecurity solutions engineered to enable organizations to detect, investigate, and respond to advanced attacks, confirm and manage identities, and, ultimately, help reduce IP theft, fraud, and cybercrime.
•SecureWorks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a leading global provider of intelligence-driven information security solutions singularly focused on protecting its clients from cyber attacks.
•Pivotal provides a leading cloud-native platform that makes software development and IT operations a strategic advantage for customers.
Pivotal's cloud-native platform, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, accelerates and streamlines software development by reducing the complexity of building, deploying and operating new cloud-native applications and modernizing legacy applications.
On March 23, 2018, in preparation for an initial public offering of Pivotal's Class A common stock, Pivotal filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC.
No public market currently exists for Pivotal's Class A common stock.
•Boomi specializes in cloud-based integration, connecting information between existing on-premise and cloud-based applications to ensure business processes are optimized, data is accurate, and workflow is reliable.
See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our other businesses.
For further discussion regarding our current reportable segments, see "Part II — Item 7 —Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Business Unit Results."
Dell Financial Services
We also offer or arrange various financing options and services for our customers in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand through Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ("DFS").
DFS services include originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of Dell Technologies products and services.
The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed.
For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.
Research and Development
We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate highly desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices.
We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products.
We manage our research and development ("R&D") spending by targeting those innovations and products that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying on the capabilities of our strategic relationships.
Through this collaborative, customer-focused approach, we strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently.
Additionally, from time to time, we make strategic investments in publicly-traded and privately-held companies that develop software, hardware, and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies.
VMware represents a significant portion of our R&D activities and has assembled an experienced group of developers with systems management, public and private cloud, desktop, digital mobility, security, applications, software-as-a-service, networking, storage, and open source software expertise.
VMware also has strong ties to leading academic institutions around the world, and invests in joint research with academia.
Product development efforts are prioritized through a combination of engineering-driven innovation and customer- and market-driven feedback.
Dell Technologies has a global R&D presence, with total R&D expenses of $4.4 billion, $2.6 billion, and $1.1 billion for Fiscal 2018, Fiscal 2017, and Fiscal 2016, respectively.
These investments reflect our commitment to R&D activities that ultimately support our mission: to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT.
7
Manufacturing and Materials
We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland.
See "Item 2 — Properties" for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities.
We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and building a world-class supply chain.
Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control.
We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations.
Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers.
Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process.
Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and information from customers obtained through services and support programs.
This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes most of our global sites that design, manufacture, and service our products.
Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities in Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Ireland are certified to the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems and also have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification, an international standard for facilities with world-class safety and health management systems.
These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality and environmental management are among the highest levels of certifications available.
We also have implemented Lean Six Sigma methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved.
We maintain a robust Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner.
We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers.
In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on single-source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations.
We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors.
See "Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risk Factors Relating to Our Business — Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm Dell Technologies' business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost" for information about the risks associated with Dell Technologies' use of single- or limited-source suppliers.
Geographic Operations
Our global corporate headquarters is located in Round Rock, Texas.
We have operations and conduct business in many countries located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and other geographic regions.
To increase our global presence, we continue to focus on emerging markets outside of the United States, Western Europe, Canada, and Japan.
We continue to view these geographical markets, which include the vast majority of the world's population, as a long-term growth opportunity.
Accordingly, we pursue the development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets.
Our expansion in emerging markets creates additional complexity in coordinating the design, development, procurement, manufacturing, distribution, and support of our product and services offerings.
For information about the amount of net revenue we generated from our operations outside of the United States during the last three fiscal years, see Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.
8
Competition
We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and services offerings.
We face ongoing product and price competition in all areas of our business, including from both branded and generic competitors.
We compete based on our ability to offer customers competitive, scalable, and integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features at a competitive price.
We closely monitor market pricing and solutions trends, including the effect of foreign exchange rate movements, in an effort to provide the best value for our customers.
We believe that our strong relationships with our customers and channel partners allow us to respond quickly to changing customer needs and other macroeconomic factors.
The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are comprised of large and small companies across all areas of our business.
We believe that new businesses will continue to enter these markets and develop technologies that, if commercialized, may compete with our products and services.
Moreover, current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, which may further increase the competitive pressures.
See "Item 1A — Risk Factors" for information about our competitive risks.
Sales and Marketing
We operate a diversified business model with the majority of our revenue and operating income derived from commercial clients that consist of large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and public sector customers.
We sell products and services directly to customers and through other sales channels, such as value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers.
During Fiscal 2018, our other sales channels contributed approximately 50% of our net revenue.
Our customers include large global and national corporate businesses, public institutions that include government, educational institutions, healthcare organizations, and law enforcement agencies, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers.
Our sales efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our customers, and our marketing initiatives reflect this focus.
We believe that our unified global sales and marketing team creates a sales organization that is more customer-focused, collaborative, and innovative.
Our go-to-market strategy includes a direct business model, as well as channel distribution.
Our direct business model emphasizes direct communication with customers, thereby allowing us to refine our products and marketing programs for specific customers groups, and we continue to pursue this strategy.
In addition to our direct business model, we rely on a network of channel partners to sell our products and services, enabling us to efficiently serve a greater number of customers.
We market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses and consumers through various advertising media.
To react quickly to our customers' needs, we track our Net Promoter Score, a customer loyalty metric that is widely used across various industries.
Increasingly, we also engage with customers through our social media communities on www.delltechnologies.com and in external social media channels.
For large business and institutional customers, we maintain a field sales force throughout the world.
Dedicated account teams, which include technical sales specialists, form long-term relationships to provide our largest customers with a single source of assistance, develop tailored solutions for these customers, position the capabilities of Dell Technologies, and provide us with customer feedback.
For these customers, we offer several programs designed to provide single points of contact and accountability with dedicated account managers, special pricing, and consistent service and support programs.
We also maintain specific sales and marketing programs targeting federal, state, and local governmental agencies, as well as healthcare and educational customers.
Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses
As of February 2, 2018, we held a worldwide portfolio of 16,563 patents and had an additional 11,774 patent applications pending.
Of those amounts, VMware, Inc. owned 2,183 patents and had an additional 2,763 patent applications pending.
We also hold licenses to use numerous third-party patents.
To replace expiring patents, we obtain new patents through our ongoing research and development activities.
The inventions claimed in our patents and patent applications cover aspects of our current and possible future computer system products, manufacturing processes, and related technologies.
Our product, business method, and manufacturing process patents may establish barriers to entry in many product lines.
Although we use our patented inventions and also license them to others, we are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.
We have entered into a variety of intellectual property licensing and cross-licensing agreements and software licensing agreements with other companies.
We anticipate that our worldwide patent portfolio will continue to be of value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry.
9
We have obtained U.S. federal trademark registration for the Dell word mark and logo mark and the VMware word and logo mark.
We have pending applications to register Dell EMC word marks.
As of February 2, 2018, we owned registrations for 336 of our other trademarks in the United States and had pending applications for registration of 64 other trademarks.
We believe that the DELL, Dell EMC, and VMware word marks and logo marks in the United States are material to our operations.
As of February 2, 2018, we also had applied for, or obtained registration of, the DELL word mark and several other marks in approximately 184 other countries.
From time to time, other companies and individuals assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are alleged to be relevant to the technology industry or our business.
We evaluate each claim relating to our products and, if appropriate, seek a license to use the protected technology.
The licensing agreements generally do not require the licensor to assist us in duplicating the licensor's patented technology, nor do the agreements protect us from trade secret, copyright, or other violations by us or our suppliers in developing or selling the licensed products.
Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are owned by us.
We disclaim proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Satmetrix Systems, Inc., Bain & Company, Inc., and Fred Reichheld.
Government Regulation and Sustainability
Government Regulation — Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies and other governmental agencies.
Such regulation includes the activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; the anti-trust regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Union; the consumer protection laws and financial services regulation of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state governmental agencies; the export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of the Treasury; the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and the U.S. Department of Transportation; the health information privacy and security requirements of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and the environmental, employment and labor, and other regulatory activities of a variety of governmental authorities in each of the countries in which we conduct business.
We were not assessed any material environmental fines, nor did we have any material environmental remediation or other environmental costs, during Fiscal 2018.
Our Philosophy on Sustainability: Building a Legacy of Good — One of the core tenets of Dell Technologies is the belief that technology should drive human progress.
We remain committed to putting our technology and expertise to work where it can do the most good for people and our planet.
This commitment is intimately tied to our business goals of driving growth, helping mitigate risk, and ensuring business opportunities by building our brand.
Based on the idea that we all win when we create shared value, we created the Legacy of Good plan to build on the strengths throughout our value chain to create social, environmental, and economic value by uniting our purpose with our business objectives.
The plan features 22 bold goals for the year 2020 across the material areas of our business, ultimately setting the agenda for building a better future where everyone can reach their full potential while sharing in and supporting the common good.
The following are key areas of focus in our Legacy of Good plan:
Creating Net Positive Outcomes — Creating net positive outcomes means putting back more into society, the environment, and the global economy than we take out.
In particular, we focus on helping customers harness the power of technology to deliver better social and environmental outcomes.
Energy Efficiency — We have set a goal to reduce the energy intensity of our entire product portfolio by 80% by 2020.
Technology Take-back, Reuse, and Recycling — We begin thinking about recycling at the design phase, asking our product engineers to work with recyclers to understand how to make products easy to repair or disassemble for recycling.
When our products reach the end of their life cycles, we make it easy for customers to recycle their obsolete electronic equipment.
Circular Economy and Design for the Environment — Recycling, reuse, and closed-loop manufacturing form the bedrock of the circular economy, ensuring that materials already in circulation stay in the economy instead of exiting as waste.
Within our own operations, we look at how materials can be used, or reused, in ways that extend their value.
Reducing Our Footprint, Caring for Our Planet — We are focused on reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
Our teams examine practices and processes throughout our facilities to identify other opportunities for greater
10
efficiency.
Many of our locations purchase some or all of their electricity from renewable sources and many of our manufacturing facilities are approaching zero waste to landfill.
Further, Dell is committed to maintaining the vitality of our oceans with our work concerning ocean-bound plastics used in our supply chain.
We have made a pledge to the United Nations to increase our annual use of ocean plastics by 10 times by 2025 and to help build further demand by convening a working group with other manufacturers to create an open-source ocean plastics supply chain.
To that end, during Fiscal 2018, we partnered to bring together a cross-industry consortium of global companies that also are committed to scaling the use of ocean-bound plastics.
Social and Environmental Responsibility ("SER") in the Supply Chain — We are committed to responsible business practices and hold ourselves and our suppliers to a high standard of excellence.
We work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce risks that could lead to harm of workers, production suspensions, factory shut-downs, or environmental damage.
All of our suppliers must agree to our global supplier principles and accept the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct.
Additionally, we are committed to a conflict-free mineral supply chain.
Youth Learning — Technology skills are critical to continued innovation and can have a profound effect on our businesses, communities, and sustainability.
We have a strong commitment to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math ("STEM") and other youth learning activities, providing funding, volunteer time, and technology to underserved populations.
Partnering with TGen on Technology for Good — Together with the Translational Genomics Research Institute ("TGen"), we are changing the paradigm in the treatment of childhood cancers.
We developed the Genomic Data Analysis Platform — a complete high-performance computing infrastructure solution uniquely designed to meet the needs of genomic data collection and analysis.
Over the past six years, we have increased computational capacity over three times, and increased storage speeds and capacity to over four times that of the original systems, thereby reducing the time it takes to sequence a genome from multiple weeks to just six hours.
The Fiscal 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is available at www.dell.com/crreport, and the Fiscal 2018 report is expected to be available in June 2018.
The VMware Fiscal 2017 Global Impact Report is available at www.vmware.com/company/sustainability, and the Fiscal 2018 report is expected to be available in September 2018.
Product Backlog
We believe that product backlog is not a meaningful indicator of net revenue that can be expected for any period.
Our business model generally gives us flexibility to manage product backlog at any point in time by expediting shipping or prioritizing customer orders toward products that have shorter lead times, thereby reducing product backlog and increasing current period revenue.
Moreover, product backlog at any point in time may not result in the generation of any predictable amount of net revenue in any subsequent period, as unfilled orders can generally be canceled at any time by the customer.
Product backlog at any point in time may not result in the generation of any predictable amount of net revenue in any subsequent period.
Employees
At the end of Fiscal 2018, we had approximately 145,000 total full-time employees, approximately 22,000 of whom were employees of VMware, Inc.
In comparison, at the end of Fiscal 2017, we had approximately 138,000 total full-time employees, approximately 20,000 of whom were employees of VMware, Inc. At the end of Fiscal 2018, approximately 39% of our full-time employees were located in the United States and approximately 61% were located in other countries.
Corporate Information
We are a holding company that conducts our operations through subsidiaries.
We were incorporated in the state of Delaware on January 31, 2013 under the name Denali Holding Inc. in connection with Dell's going-private transaction, which was completed in October 2013.
We changed our name to Dell Technologies Inc. on August 25, 2016.
The mailing address of our principal executive offices is One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682.
Our telephone number is 1-800-289-3355.
11
Our website address is www.delltechnologies.com.
We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The contents of our website are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.
DHI Group and Class V Group
Dell Technologies has two groups of common stock, denoted as the DHI Group Common Stock and the Class V Common Stock.
The DHI Group Common Stock consists of four classes of common stock, referred to as Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class C Common Stock, and Class D Common Stock.
The DHI Group generally refers to the direct and indirect interest of Dell Technologies in all of Dell Technologies' business, assets, properties, liabilities, and preferred stock other than those attributable to the Class V Group, as well as the DHI Group's retained interest in the Class V Group equal to approximately 39% of Dell Technologies' economic interest in the Class V Group as of February 2, 2018.
The Class V Common Stock is intended to track the economic performance of approximately 61% of Dell Technologies' economic interest in the Class V Group as of such date.
The Class V Group consists solely of VMware, Inc. common stock held by Dell Technologies.
As of February 2, 2018, the Class V Group consisted of approximately 331 million shares of VMware, Inc. common stock.
See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report and Exhibit 99.1 filed with this report for more information regarding the allocation of earnings from Dell Technologies' interest in VMware between the DHI Group and the Class V Common Stock.
Executive Officers of Dell Technologies
The following table sets forth, as of March 29, 2018, information about our executive officers, who are appointed by our board of directors.
Michael S. Dell — Mr. Dell serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Dell Technologies.
Mr. Dell has held the title of Chairman of the Board of Dell Inc. since he founded the company in 1984.
Mr. Dell also served as Chief Executive Officer of Dell Inc. from 1984 until July 2004 and resumed that role in January 2007.
In 1998, Mr. Dell formed MSD Capital for the purpose of managing his and his family's investments, and, in 1999, he and his wife established the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation to provide philanthropic support to a variety of global causes.
He is an honorary member of the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum and is an executive committee member of the International Business Council.
He serves as a member of the Technology CEO Council and is a member of the U.S. Business Council and the Business Roundtable.
He also serves on the governing board of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India, and is a board member of Catalyst, Inc., a non-profit organization that promotes inclusive workplaces for women.
In June 2014, Mr. Dell was named the United Nations foundation's first Global Advocate for Entrepreneurship.
Jeremy Burton — Mr. Burton serves as the Chief Marketing Officer of Dell Technologies, directly responsible for the global marketing structure, strategy, and all aspects of the company's enterprise marketing efforts, including brand, communications, digital, and field and channel marketing.
In addition to his marketing responsibilities, Mr. Burton leads Corporate Development, with responsibility for mergers and acquisitions and venture capital investment activity.
Mr. Burton served as EMC's President, Products and Marketing from March 2014 until EMC's acquisition by Dell Technologies.
He was EMC's Executive Vice President, Product Operations and Marketing from July 2012 to March 2014.
In these roles, Mr. Burton
12
was responsible for product divisions within EMC's Information Infrastructure business, including product strategy, research and development, operations, CTO office, global alliances, and global marketing.
Mr. Burton joined EMC in March 2010 as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer.
Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Burton held several senior leadership roles, including serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Serena Software, Inc., a global independent software company, and as Group President of the Security and Data Management Business Unit of Symantec Corporation, a provider of security, storage, and systems management solutions.
Prior to joining Symantec, he served as Executive Vice President of the Data Management Group and as Chief Marketing Officer at VERITAS Software Corporation (now a part of Symantec).
Earlier in his career, Mr. Burton spent nearly a decade at Oracle Corporation, a large enterprise software company, ultimately in the role of Senior Vice President of Product and Services Marketing.
For more information, see "Part II — Item 9B — Other Information" included in this report.
Jeffrey W. Clarke — Mr. Clarke serves as Vice Chairman, Products and Operations of Dell Technologies, responsible for Dell Technologies' global supply chain, and leads its product organizations: Infrastructure Solutions Group and Client Solutions Group.
Mr. Clarke has served as Vice Chairman, Products and Operations since September 2017, before which he served as Vice Chairman and President, Operations and Client Solutions with Dell Technologies and, previously, Dell, since January 2009.
In these roles, Mr. Clarke has been responsible for global manufacturing, procurement, and supply chain activities worldwide, as well as the engineering, design, and development of desktop PCs, notebooks, and workstations for customers ranging from consumers and small and medium-sized businesses to large corporate enterprises.
In addition, Mr. Clarke currently leads customer support, sales operations, commerce services functions, and IT planning and governance globally for Dell.
From January 2003 until January 2009, Mr. Clarke served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group.
From November 2001 to January 2003, Mr. Clarke served as Vice President and General Manager, Relationship Product Group.
In 1995, Mr. Clarke became the director of desktop development.
Mr. Clarke joined Dell in 1987 as a quality engineer and has served in a variety of other engineering and management roles.
Howard D. Elias — Mr. Elias serves as President, Dell Services, Digital and IT of Dell Technologies, supporting customers across the Client Solutions and Infrastructure Solutions Groups.
Mr. Elias oversees technology and deployment services, consulting services, global support services, education services, global Centers of Excellence, and the IT organization.
Mr. Elias previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Global Enterprise Services from January 2013 until EMC's acquisition by Dell Technologies, and was President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Information Infrastructure and Cloud Services from September 2009 to January 2013.
In these roles, Mr. Elias was responsible for setting the strategy, driving the execution, and creating the best practices for services that enabled the digital transformation and data center modernization of EMC's customers.
Mr. Elias also had responsibility at EMC for leading the integration of the Dell and EMC businesses, including overseeing the cross-functional teams that drove all facets of integration planning.
Previously, Mr. Elias was EMC's Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Corporate Development, responsible for all marketing, sales enablement, technology alliances, corporate development, and new ventures.
Mr. Elias was also a co-founder and served on the board of managers for the Virtual Computing Environment Company, now part of Dell Technologies' converged platform division.
Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Elias served in various capacities at Hewlett-Packard Company, a provider of information technology products, services, and solutions for enterprise customers, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Management and Operations for the Enterprise Systems Group.
Mr. Elias is a director of TEGNA Inc., a media and digital business company.
Marius Haas — Mr. Haas serves as President and Chief Commercial Officer of Dell Technologies, responsible for the global go-to-market organization, delivering innovative and practical solutions to commercial customers.
In this role, Mr. Haas also has responsibility for Dell channel partners, as well as for public and federal customers worldwide.
Mr. Haas previously served as Dell's Chief Commercial Officer and President, Enterprise Solutions from 2012 to September 2016, where he was responsible for strategy, development, and deployment of all data center and cloud solutions globally.
Mr. Haas came to Dell in 2012 from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., a global investment firm, where he was responsible for identifying and pursuing new investments, while supporting existing portfolio companies with operational expertise.
Before his service in that role, Mr. Haas served at Hewlett-Packard Company's Networking Division as Senior Vice President and Worldwide General Manager from 2008 to 2011 and as Chief of Staff to the CEO and Senior Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development from 2003 to 2008.
He has previously served as a member of McKinsey & Company CSO Council, the Ernst & Young Corporate Development Leadership Network, the board of directors for Airtight Networks, and the board of directors of the Association of Strategic Alliance Professionals.
Mr. Haas currently serves on the board of directors of the US-China Business Council.
Steven H. Price — Mr. Price serves as Dell Technologies' Chief Human Resources Officer, leading both human resources and global facilities functions.
In this role, Mr. Price is responsible for overall human resources strategy in support of the purpose, values, and business initiatives of Dell Technologies.
He is also responsible for addressing the culture, leadership, talent, and performance challenges of the company.
Mr. Price previously served as Dell's Senior Vice President, Human
13
Resources from June 2010 to September 2016.
Mr. Price joined Dell in February 1997 and has served in many key leadership roles throughout the HR organization, including Vice President of HR Operations, Global Talent Management, Vice President of HR for the global Consumer business, Vice President of HR Americas, and Vice President of HR EMEA.
Prior to joining Dell in 1997, Mr. Price spent 13 years with SC Johnson Wax, a producer of consumer products based in Racine, Wisconsin.
Having started his career there in sales, he later moved into human resources, where he held a variety of senior positions.
Mr. Price also is the executive sponsor for the Slack Employee Resource Group at Dell Technologies.
Karen H. Quintos — Ms. Quintos serves as Chief Customer Officer of Dell Technologies, where she leads a global organization solely devoted to customer advocacy, and is responsible for setting and executing a total customer experience strategy.
Ms. Quintos also leads the Diversity and Inclusion and Corporate Responsibility business imperatives, which encompass social responsibility, entrepreneurship, and diversity.
Ms. Quintos previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer ("CMO") for Dell from September 2010 to September 2016, where she led marketing for Dell's global commercial business, brand strategy, global communications, social media, corporate responsibility, customer insights, marketing talent development, and agency management.
Before becoming CMO, Ms. Quintos served as Vice President of Dell's global public business, from January 2008 to September 2010, and she also held various executive roles in marketing and in Dell's Services and Supply Chain Management teams since joining Dell in 2000.
Ms. Quintos came to Dell from Citigroup, Inc., an investment banking and financial services company, where she served as Vice President of Global Operations and Technology.
She also spent 12 years with Merck & Co., a manufacturer and distributor of pharmaceuticals, where she held a variety of marketing, operations, and supply chain leadership positions.
She has served on multiple boards of directors and currently serves on the boards of Lennox International, the Susan G. Komen for the Cure, and Penn State's Smeal Business School.
Ms. Quintos also is founder and executive sponsor of Dell's Wise employee resource group.
Rory Read — Mr. Read serves as Chief Operating Executive and Chief Integration Officer, Dell.
Mr. Read has served in his present role since October 2015, and is responsible for leading the integration of the Dell and EMC businesses.
From March 2015 to October 2015, Mr. Read served as Chief Operating Officer and President of Worldwide Commercial Sales for Dell, where he was responsible for cross-business unit and country-level operational planning, building and leading Dell's best-in-class sales engine, and overseeing the strategy for the company's global channel team, system integrator partners, and direct sales force.
Prior to joining Dell in March 2015, Mr. Read served as President and Chief Executive Officer at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a technology company, from August 2011 to October 2014, where he also served as a member of the board of directors.
Before that service, he spent over five years as President and Chief Operating Officer at Lenovo Group Ltd., a computer technology company, where he was responsible for driving growth, execution, profitability, and performance across an enterprise encompassing more than 160 countries.
Mr. Read also spent 23 years at International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), a technology and consulting company, serving in various leadership roles in the Asia-Pacific region and globally.
Richard J. Rothberg — Mr. Rothberg serves as General Counsel and Secretary for Dell Technologies.
In this role, in which he has served since November 2013, Mr. Rothberg oversees the global legal department and manages government affairs, compliance, and ethics.
He is also responsible for global security.
Mr. Rothberg joined Dell in 1999 and has served in critical leadership roles throughout the legal department.
He served as Vice President of Legal, supporting Dell's businesses in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region before moving to Singapore in 2008 as Vice President of Legal for the Asia-Pacific and Japan region.
Mr. Rothberg returned to the United States in 2010 to serve as Vice President of Legal for the North America and Latin America regions.
In this role, he was lead counsel for sales and operations in the Americas and for the enterprise solutions, software, and end-user computing business units.
He also led the government affairs organization worldwide.
Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Rothberg spent nearly eight years in senior legal roles at Caterpillar Inc., an equipment manufacturing company, in senior legal roles in Nashville, Tennessee and Geneva, Switzerland.
Mr. Rothberg was also an attorney for IBM Credit Corporation and at Rogers & Wells, a law firm.
William F. Scannell — Mr. Scannell serves as President, Global Enterprise Sales and Customer Operations, Dell EMC, leading the global go-to-market organization serving enterprise customers.
In this role, in which he has served since September 2017, Mr. Scannell leads the Dell EMC sales teams to deliver technology solutions to large enterprises and public institutions worldwide.
He is responsible for driving global growth and continued market leadership by delivering and supporting enterprise products, services, and solutions to organizations in established and new markets around the world.
Previously, Mr. Scannell served as President, Global Sales and Customer Operations at EMC Corporation.
In this role, to which he was appointed in July 2012, Mr. Scannell focused on driving coordination and teamwork among EMC's business unit sales forces, as well as building and maintaining relationships with EMC's largest global accounts, global alliance partners, and global channel partners.
Mr. Scannell began his career as an EMC sales representative in 1986, becoming country manager of Canada in 1988.
Shortly thereafter, his responsibilities expanded to include the United States and Latin America.
In 1999, Mr. Scannell
14
moved to London to oversee EMC's business across all of Europe, Middle East and Africa.
He then managed worldwide sales in 2001 and 2002 before being appointed Executive Vice President in 2007.
Thomas W. Sweet — Mr. Sweet serves as Chief Financial Officer of Dell Technologies.
In this role, in which he has served since January 2014, he is responsible for all aspects of the company's finance function, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, tax, treasury, investor relations, and corporate strategy.
From May 2007 to January 2014, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership roles for Dell, including as Vice President of Corporate Finance, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer with responsibility for global accounting, tax, treasury, and investor relations, as well as for global finance services.
Mr. Sweet was responsible for external financial reporting for more than five years when Dell Inc. was a publicly-traded company.
Prior to his service in those roles, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership positions, including as Vice President responsible for overall finance activities within the corporate business, education, government, and healthcare business units of Dell.
Mr. Sweet also has served as Vice President of internal audit and in a number of sales leadership roles in education and corporate business units since joining Dell in 1997.
15
ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS