ITEM 7A — QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Dell Technologies is exposed to a variety of market risks, including risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate changes affecting its variable-rate debt, and changes in the market value of investments.
In the normal course of business, Dell Technologies employs established policies and procedures to manage these risks.
Foreign Currency Risk
During Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, the principal foreign currencies in which Dell Technologies transacted business were the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, British Pound, and Canadian Dollar.
The objective of Dell Technologies in managing its exposures to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations is to reduce the impact of adverse fluctuations associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flows.
Accordingly, Dell Technologies utilizes foreign currency option contracts and forward contracts to hedge its exposure on forecasted transactions and firm commitments for certain currencies.
Dell Technologies monitors its foreign currency exchange exposures to ensure the overall effectiveness of its foreign currency hedge positions.
However, there can be no assurance that the foreign currency hedging activities will continue to substantially offset the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on Dell Technologies' results of operations and financial position in the future.
Based on the outstanding foreign currency hedge instruments of Dell Technologies, which include designated and non-designated instruments, there was a maximum potential one-day loss in fair value at a 95% confidence level of approximately $17 million as of February 2, 2018 and $25 million as of February 3, 2017 using a Value-at-Risk ("VAR") model.
By using market implied rates and incorporating volatility and correlation among the currencies of a portfolio, the VAR model simulates 10,000 randomly generated market prices and calculates the difference between the fifth percentile and the average as the Value-at-Risk.
The VAR model is a risk estimation tool and is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that could be incurred.
Additionally, as Dell Technologies utilizes foreign currency instruments for hedging forecasted and firmly committed transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying exposure.
Interest Rate Risk
Dell Technologies is primarily exposed to interest rate risk related to its variable-rate debt and investment portfolio.
Variable-Rate Debt — As of February 2, 2018, Dell Technologies' variable-rate debt consisted of $10.6 billion of outstanding borrowings under its Senior Secured Credit Facilities, $2.0 billion of outstanding borrowings under its Margin Loan Facility, and $2.8 billion of outstanding DFS borrowings.
Amounts outstanding under these facilities generally bear interest at variable rates equal to applicable margins plus specified base rates or LIBOR-based rates.
Accordingly, Dell Technologies is exposed to market risk based on fluctuations in interest rates on borrowings under the facilities where we do not mitigate the interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swaps.
As of February 2, 2018, outstanding borrowings under the facilities accrued interest at an annual rate between 0.87% and 9.45%.
Based on this variable-rate debt outstanding as of February 2, 2018, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $140 million in annual interest expense.
For more information about our debt, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.
By comparison, as of February 3, 2017, Dell Technologies had $11.6 billion of outstanding borrowings under its Senior Secured Credit Facilities and $4.0 billion of outstanding borrowings under its Margin Bridge Facility and VMware Note Bridge Facility.
Based on this variable-rate debt outstanding as of February 3, 2017, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $156 million in annual interest expense.
Investment Portfolio — We maintain an investment portfolio consisting of debt and equity securities of various types and maturities which is exposed to interest rate risk.
The investments are classified as available-for-sale and are all denominated in U.S. dollars.
These securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at market value, with any unrealized gain or temporary non-credit related loss recorded in other comprehensive loss.
These instruments are not leveraged and are not held for trading purposes.
Dell Technologies mitigates the risks related to its investment portfolio by investing primarily in high-quality credit securities, limiting the amount that can be invested in any single issuer, and investing in short-to-intermediate-term investments.
As of February 2, 2018 and February 3, 2017, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in a $79 million and $74 million impact, respectively, on the fair value of this portfolio.
See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information on our investment portfolio.
76
ITEM 8 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA