JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America (“U.S.”), with operations worldwide; the Firm had $2.5 trillion in assets and $255.7 billion in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2017. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23 states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking association that is the Firm’s principal credit card-issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMorgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-dealer. The bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. The Firm’s principal operating subsidiary in the U.K. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) at www.sec.gov. The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Conduct for all employees of the Firm and a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and all other professionals of the Firm worldwide serving in a finance, accounting, tax or investor relations role.

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into four major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments are Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking (“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”).

A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section

of Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on page 40 and in Note 31.

JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, financial technology companies, and other companies engaged in providing similar products and services. The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a national or regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also depends on its ability to attract and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.

It is likely that competition in the financial services industry will continue to be intense as the Firm’s businesses compete with other financial institutions that may have a stronger local presence in certain geographies or that operate under different rules and regulatory regimes than the Firm, or with companies that provide new or innovative products or services that the Firm does not provide.

The Firm is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm does business.

The Firm has experienced an extended period of significant change in regulation which has had and could continue to have significant consequences for how the Firm conducts business in the U.S. and abroad. The Firm devotes substantial resources to complying with existing and new laws, rules and regulations, while, at the same time, endeavoring to best meet the needs and expectations of its customers, clients and shareholders. As a result of legislative and regulatory changes and expanded supervision, the Firm has implemented and refined policies, procedures and controls, and made adjustments to its business and operations, legal entity structure, and capital and liquidity management. The combined effect of numerous rule-makings by multiple governmental agencies and regulators, and the potential conflicts or inconsistencies among such rules, continue to present challenges and risks to the Firm’s business and operations.

Because regulatory changes are ongoing, the Firm cannot currently quantify all of the possible effects on its business and operations of the significant changes that are underway. For more information, see Risk Factors on pages 8–26.

Consolidated supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). As a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve acts as an “umbrella regulator” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional regulatory authorities based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and, with respect to certain matters, by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). Certain non-bank subsidiaries, such as the Firm’s U.S. broker-dealers, are subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, and subsidiaries of the Firm that engage in certain futures-related and swaps-related activities are subject to supervision and regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc, is a U.K. bank licensed within the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) to undertake all banking activity and is regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”), a subsidiary of the Bank of England which has responsibility for prudential regulation of banks and other systemically important institutions, and by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates conduct matters for all market participants. The Firm’s other non-U.S. subsidiaries are regulated by the banking and securities regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. See Securities and broker-dealer regulation, Investment management regulation and Derivatives regulation below. In addition, the Firm’s consumer activities are subject to supervision and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) and to regulation under various state statutes which are enforced by the respective state’s Attorney General.

The Bank Holding Company Act generally restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely-related activities. Financial holding companies generally can engage in a broader range of financial activities than are otherwise permissible for BHCs, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies. The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit a financial holding company’s ability to conduct otherwise permissible activities if the financial holding company or any of its depository institution subsidiaries ceases to meet the applicable eligibility

requirements (including requirements that the financial holding company and each of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries maintain their status as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed”). The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and may, for example, require divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. Federal regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies. In addition, a financial holding company must obtain Federal Reserve approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally, as further described under Regulation of acquisitions below.

Activities restrictions under the Volcker Rule. Section 619 (the “Volcker Rule”) of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) prohibits banking entities, including the Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, subject to exceptions for underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, “covered funds” (as defined by the Volcker Rule) and imposes limits on certain transactions between the Firm and its sponsored funds (see JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiary banks — Restrictions on transactions with affiliates below). The period during which banking entities were required to bring covered funds into conformance with the Volcker Rule ended on July 21, 2017. The Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with the restrictions under the Volcker Rule, including, in order to distinguish permissible from impermissible risk-taking activities, the measurement, monitoring and reporting of certain key metrics.

The Federal Reserve establishes capital and leverage requirements for the Firm and evaluates its compliance with such requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital and leverage requirements for the Firm’s national banking subsidiaries. For more information about the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital and leverage, see Capital Risk Management on pages 82–91 and Note 26. Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are required to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests: the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) and the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”). In the U.S., the final LCR rule (“U.S. LCR”) became effective on January 1, 2015. In April 2016, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposed rule for NSFR, but no final rule has been issued. For additional information on LCR, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 92–97. On December 19, 2016, the Federal Reserve published final U.S. LCR public disclosure requirements. Beginning in the second quarter of 2017, the Firm began disclosing its

consolidated LCR pursuant to the U.S. LCR rule. On September 8, 2016, the Federal Reserve published the framework that will apply to the setting of the countercyclical capital buffer. The Federal Reserve reviews the amount of this buffer at least annually, and on December 1, 2017, the Federal Reserve reaffirmed setting this buffer at 0%. Banking supervisors globally continue to consider refinements and enhancements to the Basel III capital framework for financial institutions. On December 7, 2017, the Basel Committee issued Basel III: Finalizing post-crisis reforms (“Basel III Reforms”), which seeks to reduce excessive variability in RWA and converge capital requirements between Standardized and Advanced approaches. The Basel III Reforms include revisions to both the standardized and internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, streamlining of the available approaches under the credit valuation adjustment (“CVA”) framework, a revised approach for operational risk, revisions to the measurement and calibration of the leverage ratio, and a capital floor based on 72.5% of the revised Standardized approaches. The Basel Committee expects national regulatory authorities to implement the Basel III Reforms in the laws of their respective jurisdictions and to require banking organizations subject to such laws to meet most of the revised requirements by January 1, 2022, with certain elements being phased in through January 1, 2027. U.S. banking regulators will now propose requirements applicable to U.S. financial institutions.

The Federal Reserve has adopted supervisory stress tests for large bank holding companies, including JPMorgan Chase, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. Under the framework, the Firm must conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests and, in addition, must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Firm and the Federal Reserve. In reviewing the Firm’s capital plan, the Federal Reserve considers both quantitative and qualitative factors. Qualitative assessments include, among other things, the comprehensiveness of the plan, the assumptions and analysis underlying the plan, and the extent to which the Firm has satisfied certain supervisory matters related to the Firm’s processes and analyses, including the design and operational effectiveness of the controls governing such processes. Moreover, the Firm is required to receive a notice of non-objection from the Federal Reserve before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. The OCC requires JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to perform separate, similar annual stress tests. The Firm publishes each year the results of its mid-cycle stress tests under the Firm’s internally-developed “severely adverse” scenario and the results of its (and its two primary subsidiary banks’) annual stress tests under the supervisory “severely adverse” scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The Firm is required to file its 2018 annual CCAR submission on April 5,

Results will be published by the Federal Reserve by June 30, 2018, with disclosures of results by BHCs, including the Firm, to follow within 15 days. The mid-cycle capital stress test submissions are due on October 5, 2018 and BHCs, including the Firm, will publish results by November 4, 2018. For additional information on the Firm’s CCAR, see Capital Risk Management on pages 82–91. In December 2017, the Federal Reserve released a set of proposals intended to provide more detailed disclosure and transparency concerning the Federal Reserve’s approach, design and governance of the supervisory stress testing process. The proposals were open for public comment through January 22, 2018.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), among other things, recommends prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), such as JPMorgan Chase. The Federal Reserve has adopted several rules to implement the heightened prudential standards, including final rules relating to risk management and corporate governance of subject BHCs. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, and their boards of directors are required to conduct appropriate oversight of their risk management activities. For information on liquidity measures, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 92–97.

Orderly liquidation authority and resolution and recovery. As a BHC with assets of $50 billion or more, the Firm is required to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). On December 19, 2017, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC announced joint determinations on the 2017 resolution plans of eight systemically important domestic banking institutions, including that of JPMorgan Chase, and extended the filing deadline for the next resolution plan for each of these entities until July 1, 2019. The agencies determined that JPMorgan Chase’s 2017 resolution plan did not have any “deficiencies,” which are weaknesses severe enough to trigger a resubmission process that could result in more stringent requirements, or any “shortcomings,” which are less-severe weaknesses that would need to be addressed in the next resolution plan. For more information about the Firm’s resolution plan, see Risk Factors on pages 8–26.

Certain financial companies, including JPMorgan Chase and certain of its subsidiaries, can also be subjected to resolution under an “orderly liquidation authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President of the United States, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Absent such actions, the Firm, as a BHC, would remain subject to resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. In December 2013, the FDIC issued a draft policy statement

describing its “single point of entry” strategy for resolution of systemically important financial institutions under the orderly liquidation authority. This strategy seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of the BHC open and impose losses on shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. For further information see Risk Factors on pages 8–26.

The FDIC also requires each insured depository institution (“IDI”) with $50 billion or more in assets, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., to provide an IDI resolution plan.

The Firm has a comprehensive recovery plan detailing the actions it would take to avoid failure by remaining well-capitalized and well-funded in the case of an adverse event. JPMorgan Chase has provided the Federal Reserve with comprehensive confidential supervisory information and analyses about the Firm’s businesses, legal entities and corporate governance and about its crisis management governance, capabilities and available alternatives to generate liquidity and capital in severe market circumstances. The OCC has published guidelines establishing standards for recovery planning by insured national banks, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. have submitted their recovery plans to the OCC. In addition, certain of the Firm’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

Regulators in the U.S. and abroad have proposed and implemented measures designed to address the possibility or perception that large financial institutions, including the Firm, may be “too big to fail,” and to provide safeguards so that, if a large financial institution does fail, it can be resolved without the use of public funds. Higher capital surcharges on global systemically important banks (“GSIBs”), requirements for certain large bank holding companies to maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms (referred to as Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”)), and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) protocol relating to the “close-out” of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution, are examples of initiatives to address “too big to fail.” For further information on the GSIB framework and TLAC, see Capital Risk Management on pages 82–91 and Risk Factors on pages 8–26, and on the ISDA close-out protocol, see Derivatives regulation below.

Holding company as source of strength for bank subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries. This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when the Firm might otherwise determine not to provide it.

Acquisitions by bank holding companies and their banks are subject to multiple requirements by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. For example, financial holding companies and bank holding companies are required to obtain the approval of the

Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of an unaffiliated bank. In addition, acquisitions by financial companies are prohibited if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies. In addition, for certain acquisitions, the Firm must provide written notice to the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company with over $10 billion in assets that is engaged in activities that are “financial in nature.”

The Firm’s two principal subsidiary banks, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are FDIC-insured national banks regulated by the OCC. As national banks, the activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related interpretations by the OCC.

The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain deposits and is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Changes in the methodology used to calculate such assessments, resulting from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, significantly increased the assessments that the Firm’s bank subsidiaries pay annually to the FDIC. The FDIC instituted a new assessment surcharge on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets greater than $10 billion in order to raise the reserve ratio for the FDIC deposit insurance fund.

FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency. Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC could be appointed as the conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”). The FDIC has broad powers to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.

An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC if another FDIC-insured institution that is under common control with such institution is in default or is deemed to be “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution.

Prompt corrective action and early remediation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the parent BHC, such as

JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.

The OCC has established guidelines setting forth heightened standards for large banks. The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. While the bank can use certain components of the parent company’s risk governance framework, the framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from the parent for risk management purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is responsible for approving the bank’s risk governance framework, providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities, and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework.

The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase (including subsidiaries of those banks) are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, investments in stock or securities of, and derivatives, securities lending and certain other transactions with, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain other affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other affiliates from borrowing from such subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and comply with certain other requirements. For more information, see Note 25. In addition, the Volcker Rule imposes a prohibition on such transactions between any JPMorgan Chase entity and covered funds for which a JPMorgan Chase entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, as well as, subject to a limited exception, any covered fund controlled by such funds.

Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. See Note 25 for the amount of dividends that the Firm’s principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2018, to their respective bank holding companies without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC and the Federal Reserve have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends of the bank subsidiaries they supervise, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the bank.

Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC and deposits in non-U.S. branches that are dually payable in the U.S. and in a non-U.S. branch) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S. branches. As a result, such persons could receive substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.

CFPB regulation and supervision, and other consumer regulations. JPMorgan Chase and its national bank subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer protection laws, including laws relating to fair lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services. These laws include the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”), Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice, Electronic Funds Transfer, Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure (“CARD”) and Home Mortgage Disclosure Acts. The CFPB has authority to impose new disclosure requirements for certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB’s rule-making efforts have addressed mortgage-related topics, including ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. The CFPB continues to issue informal guidance on a variety of topics (such as the collection of consumer debts and credit card marketing practices). Other areas of focus include sales incentives, pre-authorized electronic funds transfers, “add-on” products, matters involving consumer populations considered vulnerable by the CFPB, credit reporting, and the furnishing of credit scores to individuals. As part of its regulatory oversight, the CFPB has authority to take enforcement actions against firms that offer certain products and services to consumers, including JPMorgan Chase.

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other non-bank broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local regulatory requirements. In the U.K., those activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and are regulated by the PRA and the FCA. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds, the financing of clients’ purchases, capital structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers and employees. For information on the net capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital for J.P. Morgan Securities plc, see Broker-dealer regulatory capital on page 91. In addition, rules adopted by the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) have imposed (among other things) a new standard of care applicable to broker-dealers when dealing

For more information see Investment management regulation below.

The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses are subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding and management of client assets, offerings of funds and marketing activities. Certain of the Firm’s subsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers. As such, the Firm’s registered investment advisers are subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as various state securities laws. For information regarding investigations and litigation in connection with disclosures to clients related to proprietary products, see Note 29.

The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses continue to be affected by ongoing rule-making and implementation of new regulations. The DOL’s fiduciary rule, which became effective June 9, 2017, has significantly expanded the universe of persons viewed as investment advice fiduciaries to retirement plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). The prohibited transaction exemptions issued in connection with the rule require adherence to “impartial conduct standards” (including a requirement to act in the “best interest” of retirement clients), although compliance with requirements relating to conditions requiring new client contracts, implementation of policies and procedures, websites and other disclosures to both investors and the DOL have been delayed until July 1, 2019. Furthermore, the DOL is performing a review of the rule and the related exemptions in accordance with a February 2017 memorandum from the President. Subject to the outcome of the DOL’s review, it is expected that the rule and related prohibited transaction exemptions will have a significant impact on the fee and compensation practices at financial institutions that offer investment advice to retail retirement clients. In addition to the impact of the DOL’s fiduciary rule, the Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses may be affected by ongoing rule-making and implementation of new regulations by the SEC and certain U.S. states relating to enhanced standards of conduct for broker-dealers and certain other market participants.

In the European Union (“EU”), substantial revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) became effective across EU member states beginning January 3, 2018. These revisions introduced expanded requirements for a broad range of investment management activities, including product governance, transparency on costs and charges, independent investment advice, inducements, record keeping and client reporting. In addition, final regulations on European Money Market Fund Reform were published in July 2017 and, following an 18-month transition period for existing funds, will implement

new requirements to enhance the liquidity and stability of money market funds in the EU.

The Firm is subject to comprehensive regulation of its derivatives businesses. The regulations impose capital and margin requirements (including the collecting and posting of variation margin and initial margin in respect of non-centrally cleared derivatives), require central clearing of standardized over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, require that certain standardized over-the-counter swaps be traded on regulated trading venues, and provide for reporting of certain mandated information. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the registration of “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” with the CFTC and of “security-based swap dealers” and “major security-based swap participants” with the SEC. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities plc and J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc may be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. As a result of their registration as swap dealers or security-based swap dealers, these entities will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to their swap or security-based swap activities, which includes capital requirements, rules regulating their swap activities, rules requiring the collateralization of uncleared swaps, rules regarding segregation of counterparty collateral, business conduct and documentation standards, record-keeping and reporting obligations, and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements. Further, some of the rules for derivatives apply extraterritorially to U.S. firms doing business with clients outside of the U.S., as well as to the overseas activities of non-U.S. subsidiaries of the Firm that either deal with U.S. persons or that are guaranteed by U.S. subsidiaries of the Firm; however, the full scope of the extra-territorial impact of the U.S. swaps regulation has not been finalized and therefore remains unclear. The effect of these rules may require banking entities, such as the Firm, to modify the structure of their derivatives businesses and face increased operational and regulatory costs. In the EU, the implementation of the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and MiFID II will result in comparable, but not identical, changes to the European regulatory regime for derivatives. The combined effect of the U.S. and EU requirements, and the potential conflicts and inconsistencies between them, present challenges and risks to the structure and operating model of the Firm’s derivatives businesses.

The Firm and other financial institutions have agreed to adhere to the 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (the “Protocol”) developed by ISDA in response to regulator concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution could impede resolution efforts and potentially destabilize markets. The Protocol provides for the contractual recognition of cross-border stays under

various statutory resolution regimes and a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights.

In the U.S., one subsidiary of the Firm, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, is registered as a futures commission merchant, and other subsidiaries are either registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors or are exempt from such registration. These CFTC-registered subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association.

The Firm and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and international laws and regulations concerning the use and protection of certain customer, employee and other personal and confidential information, including those imposed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as well as the EU Data Protection Directive. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the SEC, have increased their focus on cybersecurity and data privacy through guidance, examinations and regulations.

In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) will replace the EU Data Protection Directive, and it will have a significant impact on how businesses can collect and process the personal data of EU individuals. In addition, numerous proposals regarding privacy and data protection are pending before U.S. and non-U.S. legislative and regulatory bodies.

The Bank Secrecy Act and Economic Sanctions:

The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and reporting requirements (such as cash transaction and suspicious activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know your customer documentation requirements. In January 2013, the Firm entered into Consent Orders with its banking regulators relating to the Firm’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering policies, procedures and controls; the Firm has taken significant steps to modify and enhance its processes and controls with respect to its Anti-Money Laundering procedures and to remediate the issues identified in the Consent Order. The Firm is also subject to the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”).

The Firm is subject to laws and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. In November 2016, the Firm entered into a Consent Order with the Federal Reserve to resolve its investigation relating to a former hiring program for candidates referred by clients, potential clients and government officials in the Asia Pacific region. The Firm has taken significant steps to modify and enhance its processes and controls with respect

to the hiring of referred candidates and to remediate the issues identified in the Consent Order.

The Firm’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, as well as other agencies. The Federal Reserve has issued guidance jointly with the FDIC and the OCC that is designed to ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must issue regulations or guidelines requiring covered financial institutions, including the Firm, to report the structure of all incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. The Federal Reserve has conducted a review of the incentive compensation policies and practices of a number of large banking institutions, including the Firm. The Financial Stability Board has established standards covering compensation principles for banks. In addition, the SEC has issued regulations that will require public companies to start disclosing, beginning with annual shareholder meetings in 2018, the pay ratio between the company’s median employee and the company’s chief executive officer or other principal executive officer in the proxy statement as of December 31, 2017. The Firm’s compensation practices are also subject to regulation and oversight by local regulators in other jurisdictions. In Europe, the Fourth Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD IV”) includes compensation provisions and the European Banking Authority has instituted guidelines on compensation policies which in certain countries, such as the U.K., are implemented or supplemented by further local regulations or guidelines. The implementation of the Federal Reserve’s and other banking regulators’ guidelines regarding compensation are expected to evolve over the next several years, and may affect the manner in which the Firm structures its compensation programs and practices.

In the EU, there is an extensive and complex program of final and proposed regulatory enhancement that reflects, in part, the EU’s commitments to policies of the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (“G20”) together with other plans specific to the EU. The EU operates a European Systemic Risk Board that monitors financial stability, together with European Supervisory Authorities (“ESA”) that set detailed regulatory rules and encourage supervisory convergence across the EU’s Member States. The EU is currently reviewing the ESA framework. The EU has also created a Single Supervisory Mechanism for the euro-zone, under which the regulation of all banks in that zone will be under the auspices of the European Central Bank, together with a Single Resolution Mechanism and Single Resolution Board, having jurisdiction over bank resolution in the zone. At both the G20 and EU

levels, various proposals are under consideration to address risks associated with global financial institutions.

In the EU, this includes EMIR, which requires, among other things, the central clearing of certain standardized derivatives and risk mitigation for uncleared OTC derivatives, and MiFID II, which gives effect to the G20 commitment to move trading of standardized OTC derivatives to exchanges or electronic trading platforms. MiFID II significantly enhances requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency, transaction reporting and investor protection. MiFID II also introduces a commodities position limits and reporting regime. EMIR became effective in 2012, although some requirements apply on a phased basis and certain aspects of the regulation are currently being reviewed. MiFID II became effective across EU Member States on January 3, 2018, after a one-year delay.

The EU is also currently considering or implementing significant revisions to laws covering securities settlement; mutual funds and pensions; payments; anti-money laundering controls; data security and privacy; transparency and disclosure of securities financing transactions; benchmarks; resolution of banks, investment firms and market infrastructures; and capital and liquidity requirements for banks and investment firms. The capital and liquidity legislation for banks and investment firms will implement in the EU many of the finalized Basel III capital and liquidity standards, including in relation to the leverage ratio, market risk capital, and a net stable funding ratio. The legislation also proposes an intermediate parent undertaking (“IPU”) requirement for foreign banks, which will require non-EU banks operating in Europe (with total EU assets greater than EUR30 billion or which are part of a GSIB) to establish a single EU-located IPU. The full impact of the proposal on JPM’s EU operations and legal entities will be heavily influenced by the outcome of the EU legislative process, including whether any flexibility is introduced to the requirement.

Consistent with the G20 and EU policy frameworks, U.K. regulators have adopted a range of policy measures that have significantly changed the markets and prudential regulatory environment in the U.K. In addition, U.K. regulators have introduced measures to enhance accountability of individuals, and promote forward-looking conduct risk identification and mitigation, including by introducing the Senior Managers and Certification Regimes.

On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted by referendum to leave the European Union. The U.K. government invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty on March 29, 2017, starting a two-year period for the formal exit negotiations. This means that the U.K. will leave the EU on March 29, 2019 unless the timeline is unanimously extended by the remaining 27 EU Member States (“EU27”) and the U.K. In December 2017, the EU27 agreed that “sufficient progress” had been made on the terms of the U.K.’s withdrawal to allow parallel talks on the future relationship, which are expected to begin in March 2018. The U.K.’s priorities in negotiating the future relationship are to seek a bilateral free trade agreement

with the EU27 that facilitates the “greatest possible access” to the Single Market. However, the U.K. will not seek to continue its membership in the Single Market. The current EU27 position is that a free trade agreement should be balanced, ambitious and wide-ranging, that the U.K.’s participation in the Single Market or parts thereof must end, and that there will not be any sector-specific carve-outs, such as for financial services. Both the EU27 and the U.K. are open to the idea of a “transitional arrangement.” The U.K.’s departure from the EU will have a significant impact across the Firm’s European businesses, including business and legal entity reorganization, and may lead to direct and indirect changes to EU27 and U.K. regulatory approaches. The situation remains highly uncertain, particularly in relation to whether a transition period is implemented and whether financial services will be included in any future free trade agreement.