ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information contained in this section should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K under the captions “Risk Factors,” “Selected Financial Data,” and “Business.”

We are a leading developer, marketer and distributor of branded performance apparel, footwear and accessories. The brand’s moisture-wicking fabrications are engineered in many different designs and styles for wear in nearly every climate to provide a performance alternative to traditional products. Our products are sold worldwide and worn by athletes at all levels, from youth to professional, on playing fields around the globe, as well as by consumers with active lifestyles. The Under Armour Connected Fitness platform powers the world's largest digital health and fitness community and our strategy is focused on engaging with these consumers and increasing awareness and sales of our products.

Our net revenues grew to $4,976.6 million in 2017 from $2,332.1 million in 2013. We believe that our growth in net revenues has been driven by a growing interest in performance products and the strength of the Under Armour brand in the marketplace. Our long-term growth strategy is focused on increased sales of our products through ongoing product innovation, investment in our distribution channels and international expansion. While we plan to continue to invest in growth, we also plan to improve efficiencies throughout our business as we seek to gain scale through our operations and return on our investments.

Financial highlights for full year 2017 as compared to the prior year period include:

•Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14%.

•Gross margin decreased 140 basis points.

A large majority of our products are sold in North America; however, we believe our products appeal to athletes and consumers with active lifestyles around the globe. Internationally, our net revenues are generated from a mix of wholesale sales to retailers, sales to distributors and sales through our direct to consumer sales channels in Europe, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific. In addition, a third party licensee sells our products in Japan.

We believe there is an increasing recognition of the health benefits of an active lifestyle. We believe this trend provides us with an expanding consumer base for our products. We also believe there is a continuing shift in consumer demand from traditional non-performance products to performance products, which are intended to provide better performance by wicking perspiration away from the skin, helping to regulate body temperature and enhancing comfort. We believe that these shifts in consumer preferences and lifestyles are not unique to the United States, but are occurring in a number of markets globally, thereby increasing our opportunities to introduce our performance products to new consumers. We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term through increased sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories, expansion of our wholesale distribution, growth in our direct to consumer sales channel and expansion in international markets.

Although we believe these trends will facilitate our growth, we also face potential challenges that could limit our ability to take advantage of these opportunities or negatively impact our financial results, including, among others, the risk of general economic or market conditions that could affect consumer spending and the financial health of our retail customers. Additionally, we may not be able to successfully execute on our long-term strategies, or successfully manage the increasingly complex operations of our global business effectively. Although we have announced restructuring plans, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of these plans or other operating or cost-saving initiatives. In addition, we may not consistently be able to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new and innovative products that meet changing preferences in a timely manner. Furthermore, our industry is very competitive, and competition pressures could cause us to reduce the prices of our products or otherwise affect our profitability. We also rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers outside the U.S. to provide fabrics and to produce our products, and disruptions to our supply chain could harm our business. For a more complete discussion of the risks facing our business, refer to the “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A.

On July 27, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “ 2017 restructuring plan”) to more closely align our financial resources with the critical priorities of our business. After completion of the 2017 restructuring plan, we recognized approximately $100.4 million of pre-tax charges in connection with this plan. In addition to these charges, we also recognized restructuring related goodwill impairment charges of approximately $28.7 million for our Connected Fitness business.

On February 9, 2018, our Board of Directors approved an additional restructuring plan (the "2018 restructuring plan") identifying further opportunities to optimize operations. In conjunction with the 2018 restructuring plan, approximately $110 to $130 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges are expected to be incurred during our 2018 fiscal year, including:

•Up to $105.0 million in cash charges, consisting of up to: $55.0 million in facility and lease terminations and $50.0 million in contract termination and other restructuring charges; and

•Up to $25.0 million in non-cash charges comprised of approximately $10.0 million of inventory related charges and approximately $15.0 million of intangibles and other asset related impairments.

The United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) on December 22, 2017. The new legislation contains several key tax provisions that affect us and, as required, we have included reasonable estimates of the income tax effects of the changes in tax law and tax rate in our 2017 financial results. These changes include a one-time mandatory transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings and a re-measuring of deferred tax assets, resulting in an increase to our provision for income taxes of $38.8 million. Since the Tax Act was passed late in the fourth quarter of 2017, we consider the accounting for the transition tax, deferred tax re-measurements, and other items to be provisional as the charge may be adjusted due to changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued, and actions we may take as a result of the tax legislation. We expect to finalize our estimates within the one-year measurement period allowed by the SEC.

Net revenues comprise net sales, license revenues and Connected Fitness revenues. Net sales comprise sales from our primary product categories, which are apparel, footwear and accessories. Our license revenues primarily consist of fees paid to us by our licensees in exchange for the use of our trademarks on their products. Our Connected Fitness revenues consist of digital advertising, digital fitness platform licenses and subscriptions from our Connected Fitness business.

Cost of goods sold consists primarily of product costs, inbound freight and duty costs, outbound freight costs, handling costs to make products floor-ready to customer specifications, royalty payments to endorsers based on a predetermined percentage of sales of selected products and write downs for inventory obsolescence. The fabrics in many of our products are made primarily of petroleum-based synthetic materials. Therefore our product costs, as well as our inbound and outbound freight costs, could be affected by long term pricing trends of oil. In general, as a percentage of net revenues, we expect cost of goods sold associated with our apparel and accessories to be lower than that of our footwear. A limited portion of cost of goods sold is associated with license and Connected Fitness revenues, primarily website hosting costs.

We include outbound freight costs associated with shipping goods to customers as cost of goods sold; however, we include the majority of outbound handling costs as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to that of other companies that include outbound handling costs in their cost of goods sold. Outbound handling costs include costs associated with preparing goods to ship to customers and certain costs to operate our distribution facilities. These costs were $101.5 million, $89.9 million and $63.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of costs related to marketing, selling, product innovation and supply chain and corporate services. We consolidate our selling, general and administrative expenses into two primary categories: marketing and other, which includes our selling, product innovation and supply chain and corporate services categories. Personnel costs are included in these categories based on the employees’ function. Personnel costs include salaries, benefits, incentives and stock-based compensation related to our employees. Our marketing costs are an important driver of our growth. Marketing costs consist primarily of commercials, print ads, league, team, player and event sponsorships and depreciation expense specific to our in-store fixture program.

Other expense, net consists of unrealized and realized gains and losses on our foreign currency derivative financial instruments and unrealized and realized gains and losses on adjustments that arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relating to transactions generated by our international subsidiaries.

The following table sets forth key components of our results of operations for the periods indicated, both in dollars and as a percentage of net revenues:

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016

Net revenues increased $151.2 million, or 3.1%, to $4,976.6 million in 2017 from $4,825.3 million in 2016. Net revenues by product category are summarized below:

The increase in net sales was driven primarily by:

•Apparel unit sales growth in multiple categories led by men's and women's training and golf; and

•Accessories unit sales growth in multiple categories led by men's training; and

•Footwear unit sales growth in multiple categories led by running.

License revenues increased $16.7 million, or 16.8%, to $116.6 million in 2017 from $99.8 million in 2016. This increase in license revenues was driven primarily by increased distribution of our licensed products in North America .

Connected Fitness revenue increased $8.8 million, or 10.9%, to $89.2 million in 2017 from $80.4 million in 2016 primarily driven by increased subscribers on our fitness applications and higher licensing revenue.

Gross profit decreased $1.9 million to $2,238.7 million in 2017 from $2,240.6 million in 2016. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues, or gross margin, decreased 140 basis points to 45.0% in 2017 compared to 46.4% in 2016. The decrease in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by the following:

•an approximate 190 basis point decrease due to inventory management efforts including higher promotions and increased air freight; and

•an approximate 20 basis point decrease due to our international business representing a higher percentage of sales;

The above decreases were partially offset by:

•an approximate 50 basis point increase driven primarily by favorable product input costs; and

•an approximate 30 basis point increase driven primarily by favorable channel mix with increased sales in our direct-to-consumer channel.

With the exception of favorable product input costs and channel mix, we do not expect these trends to have a material impact on 2018.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $263.7 million to $2,086.8 million in 2017 from $1,823.1 million in 2016. As a percentage of net revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 41.9% in 2017 from 37.8% in 2016.

Income from operations decreased $389.6 million, or 93.3%, to $27.8 million in 2017 from $417.5 million in 2016. Income from operations as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 0.6% in 2017 from 8.6% in 2016. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 was negatively impacted by $124.0 million of restructuring and impairment charges in connection with the 2017 restructuring plan.

Interest expense, net increased $8.1 million to $34.5 million in 2017 from $26.4 million in 2016. This increase was primarily due to interest on the net increase of $99.7 million in total debt outstanding.

Other expense, net increased $0.9 million to $3.6 million in 2017 from $2.8 million in 2016. This increase was due to lower net gains on the combined foreign currency exchange rate changes on transactions denominated in foreign currencies and our derivative financial instruments as compared to the prior period.

Provision for income taxes decreased $93.3 million to $38.0 million in 2017 from $131.3 million in 2016. Our effective tax rate was (368.2)% in 2017 compared to 33.8% in 2016. Our effective tax rate for 2017 was lower than the effective tax rate for 2016 primarily due to the significant decrease in income before taxes, the impact of tax benefits recorded on losses in the United States, and reductions in our total liability for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of a lapse in the statute of limitations during the current period. These benefits were offset by the impact of the Tax Act, non-deductible goodwill impairment charges, and the recording of certain valuation allowances.

Our provision for income taxes in 2017 included $38.8 million of income tax expense as a result of the Tax Act, including a $13.9 million charge for our provisional estimate of the transition tax and $24.9 million for the provisional re-measurement of our deferred tax assets for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent.

Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2015

Net revenues increased $862.0 million, or 21.8%, to $4,825.3 million in 2016 from $3,963.3 million in 2015. Net revenues by product category are summarized below:

The increase in net sales was driven primarily by:

•Apparel unit sales growth in multiple categories led by training, golf and basketball; and

•Footwear unit sales growth, led by running and basketball.

License revenues increased $15.6 million, or 18.6%, to $99.8 million in 2016 from $84.2 million in 2015. This increase in license revenues was driven primarily by increased distribution of our licensed products in North America and Japan.

Connected Fitness revenue increased $27.0 million, or 50.6%, to $80.4 million in 2016 from $53.4 million in 2015 primarily driven by increased advertising and subscribers on our fitness applications.

Gross profit increased $335.1 million to $2,240.6 million in 2016 from $1,905.5 million in 2015. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues, or gross margin, decreased 170 basis points to 46.4% in 2016 compared to 48.1% in 2015. The decrease in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by the following:

•approximate 120 basis point decrease due to increased liquidation and discounting;

•approximate 70 basis point decrease driven by negative sales mix primarily driven by the continued strength of our accelerated footwear growth; and

•approximate 40 basis point decrease due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar negatively impacting our gross margins within our business outside the United States.

The above decreases were partially offset by:

•approximate 30 basis point increase driven primarily by favorable product input costs in our North America and international businesses; and

•approximate 40 basis point increase driven primarily by lower air freight costs.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $326.1 million to $1,823.1 million in 2016 from $1,497.0 million in 2015. As a percentage of net revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent at 37.8% in 2016 and in 2015. Selling, general and administrative expense was impacted by the following:

•Marketing costs increased $59.7 million to $477.5 million in 2016 from $417.8 million in 2015. This increase was primarily due to key North American retail marketing campaigns, our investments in sponsorships and increased marketing in connection with the growth of our international business. This increase was offset by lower incentive compensation expense for marketing employees. As a percentage of net revenues, marketing costs decreased to 9.9% in 2016 from 10.5% in 2015.

•Other costs increased $266.4 million to $1,345.6 million in 2016 from $1,079.2 million in 2015. This increase was primarily due to higher personnel and other costs incurred for the continued expansion of our direct to consumer distribution channel, including increased investment for our factory house and brand house stores. Additionally, we incurred $17.0 million in expenses related to the liquidation of The Sports Authority, comprised of $15.2 million in bad debt expense and $1.8 million of in-store fixture impairment. This increase was offset by lower incentive compensation expense. As a percentage of net revenues, other costs increased to 27.9% in 2016 from 27.2% in 2015.

Income from operations increased $8.9 million, or 2.2%, to $417.5 million in 2016 from $408.5 million in 2015. Income from operations as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 8.6% in 2016 from 10.3% in 2015.

Interest expense, net increased $11.8 million to $26.4 million in 2016 from $14.6 million in 2015. This increase was primarily due to interest on the net increase of $284.2 million in total debt outstanding.

Other expense, net decreased $4.4 million to $2.8 million in 2016 from $7.2 million in 2015. This decrease was due to higher net gains on the combined foreign currency exchange rate changes on transactions denominated in foreign currencies and our derivative financial instruments as compared to the prior period.

Provision for income taxes decreased $22.8 million to $131.3 million in 2016 from $154.1 million in 2015. Our effective tax rate was 33.8% in 2016 compared to 39.9% in 2015. Our effective tax rate for 2016 was lower than the effective tax rate for 2015 primarily due to increased international profitability and a tax benefit related to our prior period acquisitions.

The net revenues and operating income (loss) associated with our segments are summarized in the following tables. Intersegment revenue is generated by Connected Fitness which runs advertising campaigns for other segments.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016

Net revenues by segment are summarized below:

Operating income (loss) by segment is summarized below. The majority of corporate expenses within North America have not been allocated to our other segments.

Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2015

Net revenues by segment are summarized below:

The increase in total net revenues was driven by the following:

•Net revenues in our North America operating segment increased $549.6 million to $4,005.3 million in 2016 from $3,455.7 million in 2015 primarily due to the items discussed above in the Consolidated Results of Operations.

•Net revenues in our EMEA operating segment increased $127.5 million to $330.6 million in 2016 from $203.1 million in 2015 primarily due to unit sales growth to wholesale partners in Germany and the United Kingdom.

•Net revenues in our Asia-Pacific operating segment increased $123.7 million to $268.6 million in 2016 from $144.9 million in 2015 primarily due to our first e-commerce site in our direct to consumer channel and an increase in mono-branded partner stores which are included in our wholesale channel.

•Net revenues in our Latin America operating segment increased $35.6 million to $141.8 million in 2016 from $106.2 million in 2015 primarily due an increase in company operated stores in our direct to consumer channel and partner doors in our wholesale channel.

•Net revenues in our Connected Fitness operating segment increased $27.0 million to $80.4 million in 2016 from $53.4 million in 2015 primarily driven by increased advertising and subscribers on our fitness applications.

Operating income (loss) by segment is summarized below:

The increase in total operating income was driven by the following:

•Operating income in our North America operating segment decreased $52.5 million to $408.4 million in 2016 from $461.0 million in 2015 primarily due to decreases in gross margin discussed above in the Consolidated Results of Operations and $17.0 million in expenses related to the liquidation of The Sports Authority, comprised of $15.2 million in bad debt expense and $1.8 million of in-store fixture impairment. In addition, this decrease reflects the movement of $11.1 million in expenses resulting from a strategic shift in headcount supporting our global business from our Connected Fitness operating segment to North America. This decrease is partially offset by the increases in revenue discussed above in the Consolidated Results of Operations.

•Operating income in our EMEA operating segment increased $8.3 million to $11.4 million in 2016 from $3.1 million in 2015 primarily due to sales growth discussed above and reductions in incentive compensation. This increase was offset by investments in sports marketing and infrastructure for future growth.

•Operating income in our Asia-Pacific operating segment increased $31.9 million to $68.3 million in 2016 from $36.4 million in 2015 primarily due to sales growth discussed above and reductions in incentive compensation. This increase was offset by investments in our direct-to-consumer business and entry into new territories.

•Operating loss in our Latin America operating segment increased $3.3 million to $33.9 million in 2016 from $30.6 million in 2015 primarily due to increased investments to support growth in the region and the economic challenges in Brazil during the period. This increase in operating loss was offset by sales growth discussed above and reductions in incentive compensation.

•Operating loss in our Connected Fitness segment decreased $24.5 million to $36.8 million in 2016 from $61.3 million in 2015 primarily driven by sales growth discussed above.

Historically, we have recognized a majority of our net revenues and a significant portion of our income from operations in the last two quarters of the year, driven primarily by increased sales volume of our products during the fall selling season, including our higher priced cold weather products, along with a larger proportion of higher margin direct to consumer sales. The level of our working capital generally reflects the seasonality and growth in our business. We generally expect inventory, accounts payable and certain accrued expenses to be higher in the second and third quarters in preparation for the fall selling season.

The following table sets forth certain financial information for the periods indicated. The data is prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. All recurring, necessary adjustments are reflected in the data below:

Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity

Our cash requirements have principally been for working capital and capital expenditures. We fund our working capital, primarily inventory, and capital investments from cash flows from operating activities, cash and cash equivalents on hand, borrowings available under our credit and long term debt facilities and the issuance of debt securities. Our working capital requirements generally reflect the seasonality and growth in our business as we recognize the majority of our net revenues in the back half of the year. Our capital investments have included expanding our in-store fixture and branded concept shop program, improvements and expansion of our distribution and corporate facilities to support our growth, leasehold improvements to our new brand and factory house stores, and investment and improvements in information technology systems.

Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems and processes in place to improve our inventory management. These systems and processes, including our new global operating and financial reporting information technology system, are designed to improve our forecasting and supply planning capabilities. In addition to systems and processes, key areas of focus that we believe will enhance inventory performance are added discipline around the purchasing of product, production lead time reduction, and better planning and execution in selling of excess inventory through our factory house stores and other liquidation channels.

We believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash from operations, borrowings available to us under our credit agreement and other financing instruments and our ability to access the capital markets are adequate to meet our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months.

have adequate sources of liquidity over the long term, an economic recession or a slow recovery could adversely affect our business and liquidity (refer to the “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A). In addition, instability in or tightening of the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional capital to grow our business on terms acceptable to us or at all.

At December 31, 2017, $158.7 million, or approximately 50.8%, of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Based on the capital and liquidity needs of our foreign operations, we intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside the United States. In addition, our United States operations do not require the repatriation of these funds to meet our currently projected liquidity needs. Should we require additional capital in the United States, we may elect to repatriate indefinitely reinvested foreign funds or raise capital in the United States.

The Tax Act provided for a one-time transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings to transition U.S. international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system. We recorded a provisional tax liability of $13.9 million relating to the one-time transition tax on our indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. If we were to repatriate indefinitely reinvested foreign funds, we would not be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax, however, we would be required to accrue and pay any applicable withholding tax and U.S. state income tax liabilities and record foreign exchange rate impacts.

The following table presents the major components of net cash flows used in and provided by operating, investing and financing activities for the periods presented:

Operating activities consist primarily of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include depreciation and amortization, unrealized foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses, losses on disposals of property and equipment, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and changes in reserves and allowances. In addition, operating cash flows include the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally inventories, accounts receivable, income taxes payable and receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses.

Cash flows provided by operating activities decreased $130.3 million to $234.1 million in 2017 from $364.4 million in 2016. The decrease in cash from operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in net income of $305.2 million. This decrease was partially offset by a smaller decrease in accounts receivable of $170.1 million.

Cash flows provided by operating activities increased $349.8 million to $364.4 million in 2016 from $14.6 million in 2015. The increase in cash from operating activities was due to increased net cash flows from operating assets and liabilities of $325.4 million, an increase in net income of $24.4 million year over year and an increase in adjustments to net income for non-cash items of $1.1 million year over year.

Cash used in investing activities decreased $98.2 million to $283.0 million in 2017 from $381.1 million in 2016, primarily due lower capital expenditures in 2017.

Cash used in investing activities decreased $466.4 million to $381.1 million in 2016 from $847.5 million in 2015, primarily due to the impact of our Connected Fitness acquisitions of MyFitnessPal and Endomondo which occurred during the first quarter of 2015.

Total capital expenditures were $274.9 million, $405.5 million, and $325.5 in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2018 are expected to be approximately $225.0 million.

Cash provided by financing activities decreased $39.4 million to $106.8 million in 2017 from $146.1 million in 2016. This decrease was primarily due to lower borrowing on our revolving credit facility.

Cash provided by financing activities decreased $235.3 million to $146.1 million in 2016 from $381.4 million in 2015. This decrease was primarily due to higher repayments on our revolving credit facility, partially offset by the issuance of senior notes in 2016.

We are party to a credit agreement that provides revolving commitments for up to $1.25 billion of borrowings, as well as term loan commitments, in each case maturing in January 2021. As of  December 31, 2017 the outstanding balance under the revolving credit facility was $125.0 million and $161.3 million of term loan borrowings remained outstanding.

At our request and the lender's consent, revolving and or term loan borrowings may be increased by up to $300.0 million in aggregate, subject to certain conditions as set forth in the credit agreement, as amended. Incremental borrowings are uncommitted and the availability thereof, will depend on market conditions at the time we seek to incur such borrowings.

The borrowings under the revolving credit facility have maturities of less than one year. Up to $50.0 million of the facility may be used for the issuance of letters of credit. There were $4.5 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2017.

The credit agreement contains negative covenants that, subject to significant exceptions, limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge our assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. We are also required to maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.50 to 1.00 and are not permitted to allow the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA to be greater than 3.25 to 1.00 ("consolidated leverage ratio"). As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with these ratios. In February 2018, we amended the credit agreement to amend the definition of consolidated EBITDA, and to provide that our trailing four-quarter consolidated leverage ratio may not exceed 3.75 to 1.00 for the four quarters ended June 30, 2018, and 4.00 to 1.00 for the four quarters ended September 30, 3018. Beginning with the four quarters ended December 31, 2018 and thereafter, the consolidated leverage ratio requirement will return to 3.25 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains events of default that are customary for a facility of this nature, and includes a cross default provision whereby an event of default under other material indebtedness, as defined in the credit agreement, will be considered an event of default under the credit agreement.

Borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either (a) an alternate base rate, or (b) a rate based on the rates applicable for deposits in the interbank market for U.S. Dollars or the applicable currency in which the loans are made (“adjusted LIBOR”), plus in each case an applicable margin. The applicable margin for loans will be adjusted by reference to a grid (the “Pricing Grid”) based on the consolidated leverage ratio and ranges between 1.00% to 1.25% for adjusted LIBOR loans and 0.00% to 0.25% for alternate base rate loans. The weighted average interest rate under the outstanding term loans and revolving credit facility borrowings was 2.2% and 1.6% during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We pay a commitment fee on the average daily unused amount of the revolving credit facility and certain fees with respect to letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, the commitment fee was 17.5 basis points. Since inception, we have incurred and deferred $3.9 million in financing costs in connection with the credit agreement.

In June 2016, we issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2026 (the “Notes”). The proceeds were used to pay down amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Interest is payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 beginning December 15, 2016. Prior to March 15, 2026 (three months prior to the maturity date of the Notes), we may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or a “make-whole” amount applicable to such Notes as described in the indenture governing the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. On or after March 15, 2026 (three months prior to the maturity date of the Notes), we may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.

The indenture governing the Notes contains covenants, including limitations that restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to create or incur secured indebtedness and enter into sale and leaseback transactions and our ability to consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our properties or assets to another person, in each case subject to material exceptions described in the indenture. We incurred and deferred $5.3 million in financing costs in connection with the Notes.

In December 2012, we entered into a $50.0 million recourse loan collateralized by the land, buildings and tenant improvements comprising our corporate headquarters. The loan has a seven year term and maturity date of December 2019. The loan bears interest at one month LIBOR plus a margin of 1.50%, and allows for prepayment without penalty. The loan includes covenants and events of default substantially consistent with our credit agreement discussed above. The loan also requires prior approval of the lender for certain matters related to the property, including transfers of any interest in the property. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the outstanding balance on the loan was $40.0 million and $42.0 million, respectively. The weighted average interest rate on the loan was 2.5% and 2.0% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Interest expense, net was $34.5 million, $26.4 million, and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest expense includes the amortization of deferred financing costs, bank fees, capital and built-to-suit lease interest and interest expense under the credit and other long term debt facilities. Amortization of deferred financing costs was $1.3 million, $1.2 million, and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

We monitor the financial health and stability of our lenders under the credit and other long term debt facilities, however during any period of significant instability in the credit markets lenders could be negatively impacted in their ability to perform under these facilities.

We lease warehouse space, office facilities, space for our brand and factory house stores and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. The leases expire at various dates through 2033, excluding extensions at our option, and include provisions for rental adjustments. In addition, this table includes executed lease agreements for brand and factory house stores that we did not yet occupy as of December 31, 2017. The operating leases generally contain renewal provisions for varying periods of time. Our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2017 as well as significant agreements entered into during the period after December 31, 2017 through the date of this report are summarized in the following table:

(1)Includes estimated interest payments based on applicable fixed and currently effective floating interest rates as of December 31, 2017, timing of scheduled payments, and the term of the debt obligations.

(3)We generally place orders with our manufacturers at least three to four months in advance of expected future sales. The amounts listed for product purchase obligations primarily represent our open production purchase orders with our manufacturers for our apparel, footwear and accessories, including expected inbound freight, duties and other costs. These open purchase orders specify fixed or minimum quantities of products at determinable prices. The product purchase obligations also includes fabric commitments with our suppliers, which secure a portion of our material needs for future seasons. The reported amounts exclude product purchase liabilities included in accounts payable as of December 31, 2017.

(4)Includes sponsorships with professional teams, professional leagues, colleges and universities, individual athletes, athletic events and other marketing commitments in order to promote our brand. Some of these sponsorship agreements provide for additional performance incentives and product supply obligations. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on product supply obligations on an annual basis as contracts generally do not stipulate specific cash amounts to be spent on products. The amount of product provided to these sponsorships depends on many factors including general playing conditions, the number of sporting events in which they participate and our decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. In addition, it is not possible to determine the performance incentive amounts we may be required to pay under these agreements as they are primarily subject to certain performance based and other variables. The amounts listed above are the fixed minimum amounts required to be paid under these sponsorship agreements. Additionally, these amounts include minimum guaranteed royalty payments to endorsers and licensors based upon a predetermined percent of sales of particular products.

The table above excludes a liability of $54.4 million for uncertain tax positions, including the related interest and penalties, recorded in accordance with applicable accounting guidance, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our uncertain tax positions.

In connection with various contracts and agreements, we have agreed to indemnify counterparties against certain third party claims relating to the infringement of intellectual property rights and other items. Generally, such indemnification obligations do not apply in situations in which our counterparties are grossly negligent, engage in willful misconduct, or act in bad faith. Based on our historical experience and the estimated probability of future loss, we have determined the fair value of such indemnifications is not material to our financial position or results of operations.

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To prepare these financial statements, we must make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be significantly different from these estimates. We believe the following discussion addresses the critical accounting policies that are necessary to understand and evaluate our reported financial results.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the audited consolidated financial statements. The SEC suggests companies provide additional disclosure on those accounting policies considered most critical. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management in its application. Our estimates are often based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. It is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. There were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies during the year ended December 31, 2017.

Net revenues consist of both net sales and license and other revenues. Net sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including passage of title to the customer and transfer of risk of loss related to those goods. Transfer of title and risk of loss are based upon shipment under free on board shipping point for most goods or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement with the customer. In some instances, transfer of title and risk of loss take place at the point of sale, for example at our brand and factory house stores. We may also ship product directly from our supplier to the customer and recognize revenue when the product is delivered to and accepted by the customer. License revenues are primarily recognized based upon shipment of licensed products sold by our licensees. Sales taxes imposed on our revenues from product sales are presented on a net basis on the consolidated statements of income and therefore do not impact net revenues or costs of goods sold.

We record reductions to revenue for estimated customer returns, allowances, markdowns and discounts. We base our estimates on historical rates of customer returns and allowances as well as the specific identification of outstanding returns, markdowns and allowances that have not yet been received by us. The actual amount of customer returns and allowances, which is inherently uncertain, may differ from our estimates. If we determine that actual or expected returns or allowances are significantly higher or lower than the reserves we established, we would record a reduction or increase, as appropriate, to net sales in the period in which we make such a determination. Provisions for customer specific discounts are based on contractual obligations with certain major customers. Reserves for returns, allowances, markdowns and discounts are recorded as an offset to accounts receivable as settlements are made through offsets to outstanding customer invoices. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, there were $246.6 million and $146.2 million, respectively, in reserves for customer returns, allowances, markdowns and discounts.

We make ongoing estimates relating to the collectability of accounts receivable and maintain an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the reserve, we consider historical levels of credit losses and significant economic developments within the retail environment that could impact the ability of our customers to pay outstanding balances and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Because we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from estimates. If the financial condition of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger reserve might be required. In the event we determine a smaller or larger reserve is appropriate, we would record a benefit or charge to selling, general and administrative expense in the period in which such a determination was made. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $19.7 million and $11.3 million, respectively.

Inventories consist primarily of finished goods. Costs of finished goods inventories include all costs incurred to bring inventory to its current condition, including inbound freight, duties and other costs. We value our inventory at standard cost which approximates landed cost, using the first-in, first-out method of cost determination. Market value is estimated based upon assumptions made about future demand and retail market conditions. If we determine that the estimated market value of our inventory is less than the carrying value of such inventory, we record a charge to cost of goods sold to reflect the lower of cost or market. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those that we projected, further adjustments may be required that would increase the cost of goods sold in the period in which such a determination was made.

Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets

Goodwill and intangible assets are recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and are allocated to the reporting units that are expected to receive the related benefits. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized and are required to be tested for impairment at least annually or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. In conducting an annual impairment test, we first review qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If factors indicate that is the case,  we perform the goodwill impairment test. We compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. We calculate fair value using the discounted cash flows model, which indicates the fair value of the reporting unit based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting unit to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital, long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit’s business, and working capital effects. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, goodwill is impaired to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform our annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.

We continually evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful life of long-lived assets may warrant revision or that the remaining balance may not be recoverable. These factors may include a significant deterioration of operating results, changes in business plans, or changes in anticipated cash flows. When factors indicate that an asset should be evaluated for possible impairment, We review long-lived assets to assess recoverability from future operations using undiscounted cash flows. If future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment is recognized in earnings to the extent that the carrying value exceeds fair value.

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities at tax rates expected to be in effect when such assets or liabilities are realized or settled. Deferred income tax assets are reduced by valuation allowances when necessary.

Assessing whether deferred tax assets are realizable requires significant judgment. We consider all available positive and negative evidence, including historical operating performance and expectations of future operating performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is often dependent upon future taxable income and therefore can be uncertain. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the asset will not be realized, valuation allowances are established against our deferred tax assets, which increase income tax expense in the period when such a determination is made.

A significant portion of our deferred tax assets relate to U.S. federal and state taxing jurisdictions. Realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent on future U.S. pre-tax earnings. Due to our challenged U.S. results we incurred significant net operating losses (“NOLs”) in these jurisdictions in 2017. Based on these factors, we have evaluated our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets in future years. In evaluating the recoverability of these deferred tax assets at December 31, 2017, we have considered all available evidence, both positive and negative, including but not limited to the following:

•Availability of taxable income in the U.S. federal and certain state NOL carryback periods;

federal NOLs have an indefinite carryforward period, beginning in 2018 pursuant to the Tax Act;

•Definite lived tax attributes with relatively long carryforward periods; a majority from 10 to 20 years;

•No history of U.S. federal and state tax attributes expiring unused;

•Three year cumulative U.S. federal and state pre-tax income;

•Relative low values of pre-tax income required to realized deferred tax assets relative to historic income levels;

•Restructuring plans being undertaken to improve profitability;

•Availability of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.

•Inherent challenges in forecasting future pre-tax earnings which rely on improved profitability from our restructuring efforts;

•The continuing challenge of changes in the U.S. consumer retail business environment;

•While relatively long, existence of definite lived tax attributes of certain U.S. federal tax credits and state NOLs;

As of December 31, 2017, we believe that the weight of the positive evidence outweighs the negative evidence regarding the realization of the majority of the net deferred tax assets. We will continue to evaluate our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis.

Income taxes include the largest amount of tax benefit for an uncertain tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. Settlements with tax authorities, the expiration of statutes of limitations for particular tax positions, or obtaining new information on particular tax positions may cause a change to the effective tax rate. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of income.

We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with accounting guidance that requires all stock-based compensation awards granted to employees and directors to be measured at fair value and recognized as an expense in the financial statements. As of December 31, 2017, we had $87.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.2 years. This unrecognized compensation expense does not include any expense related to performance-based restricted stock units and stock options for which the performance targets have not been achieved as of December 31, 2017.

The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards represent management’s best estimates, but the estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. In addition, compensation expense for performance-based awards is recorded over the related service period when achievement of the performance targets are deemed probable, which requires management judgment. The achievement of certain revenue and operating income targets related to the performance-based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2017 were not deemed probable as of December 31, 2017. Additional stock-based compensation expense of up to $5.7 million would have been recorded from grant date through 2017 for these performance-based restricted stock units and stock options had the full achievement of all operating targets been deemed probable; however, currently we do not believe that these targets will be met. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Refer to Note 2 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on stock-based compensation.

Refer to Note 2 to the notes to our financial statements included in this Form 10-K for our assessment of recently issued accounting standards.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK