PART I

Item 1. Business 

General

Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in 75 countries. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation’s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SBUX.” We purchase and roast high-quality coffees that we sell, along with handcrafted coffee, tea and other beverages and a variety of high-quality food items, including snack offerings, through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, grocery and foodservice accounts. In addition to our flagship Starbucks Coffee brand, we sell goods and services under the following brands: Teavana, Tazo, Seattle’s Best Coffee, Evolution Fresh, La Boulange and Ethos.

Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To achieve this, we are continuing the disciplined expansion of our global store base, adding stores in both existing, developed markets such as the U.S., and in newer, higher growth markets such as China, as well as optimizing the mix of company-operated and licensed stores in each market. In addition, by leveraging the experience gained through our traditional store model, we continue to offer consumers new coffee and other products in a variety of forms, across new categories, diverse channels and alternative store formats. We also believe our Starbucks Global Social Impact strategy, commitments related to ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, contributing positively to the communities we do business in and being an employer of choice are contributors to our objective.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“10-K” or “Report”) for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2017 (“fiscal 2017”), Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as “Starbucks,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our.”

Segment Financial Information

We have four reportable operating segments: 1) Americas, which is inclusive of the U.S., Canada, and Latin America; 2) China/Asia Pacific (“CAP”); 3) Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”) and 4) Channel Development. We also have several non-reportable operating segments, including Teavana retail stores and Seattle's Best Coffee, as well as certain developing businesses such as Siren Retail, which includes the Starbucks ReserveTM Roastery & Tasting Rooms, certain Starbucks ReserveTM locations and Princi operations. Collectively, the combined group of non-reportable operating segments will be referred to as All Other Segments. Revenues from our reportable segments and All Other Segments as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal 2017 were as follows: Americas (70%), CAP (14%), EMEA (5%), Channel Development (9%) and All Other Segments (2%).

Our Americas, CAP, and EMEA segments include both company-operated and licensed stores. Our Americas segment is our most mature business and has achieved significant scale. Certain markets within our CAP and EMEA operations are still in the early stages of development and require a more extensive support organization, relative to their current levels of revenue and operating income, than our Americas operations. The Americas, CAP and EMEA segments also include certain foodservice accounts, primarily in Canada, Japan and the U.K. 

Our Channel Development segment includes roasted whole bean and ground coffees, premium Tazo® teas, Starbucks- and Tazo-branded single-serve products, a variety of ready-to-drink beverages, such as Frappuccino®, Starbucks Doubleshot® and Starbucks Refreshers® beverages and other branded products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse clubs, specialty retailers, convenience stores and U.S. foodservice accounts.

Starbucks segment information is included in Note 16, Segment Reporting, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K. 

2
Revenue Components

We generate nearly all of our revenues through company-operated stores, licensed stores, consumer packaged goods (“CPG”) and foodservice operations. 

Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of October 1, 2017 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including our ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks and our ability to leverage the support infrastructure within a geographic region.

Company-operated Stores

Revenue from company-operated stores accounted for 79% of total net revenues during fiscal 2017. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee and tea in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee, tea and related products, as well as complementary food and snack offerings, and by providing each customer with a unique Starbucks Experience. The Starbucks Experience is built upon superior customer service and a seamless digital experience as well as clean and well-maintained stores that reflect the personalities of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty.

Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to increase our market share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including expected financial returns, the maturity of the market, economic conditions, consumer behavior and local business practices.

3
Company-operated store data for the year-ended October 1, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) China/Asia Pacific store data includes the transfer of 133 Singapore company-operated retail stores to licensed stores as a result of the sale to Maxim's Caterers Limited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.

Starbucks® company-operated stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses and in select rural and off-highway locations. We are continuing the expansion of our stores, inclusive of Drive Thru formats that provide a higher degree of access and convenience, and alternative store formats, which are focused on an elevated Starbucks Experience for our customers.

Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) “Other” primarily consists of sales of serveware, ready-to-drink beverages and coffee-making equipment, among other items.

4
Stored Value Cards

The Starbucks Card, our branded stored value card program, is designed to provide customers with a convenient payment method, support gifting and increase the frequency of store visits by cardholders, in part through the related Starbucks Rewards™ (previously My Starbucks Rewards®) loyalty program where available, as discussed below. Stored value cards are issued to customers when they initially load them with an account balance. They can be obtained in our company-operated and most licensed stores in North America, China, Japan, Latin America, and many of our markets in our CAP and EMEA segments. Stored value cards can also be obtained on-line, via the Starbucks® Mobile App, and through other U.S. and international retailers. Customers may access their card balances by utilizing their stored value card or the Starbucks® Mobile App in participating stores, which also include certain Teavana ™ locations. Using the Mobile Order and Pay functionality of the Starbucks® Mobile App, customers can also place orders in advance for pick-up at certain participating locations in the U.S. and Canada. In nearly all markets, including the U.S. and Canada, customers who register their cards are automatically enrolled in the Starbucks Rewards™ program. Registered members can receive various benefits depending on factors such as the number of reward points (“Stars”) earned. Refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K, for further discussion of our stored value cards and loyalty program.

Licensed Stores

Revenues from our licensed stores accounted for 11% of total net revenues in fiscal 2017. Licensed stores generally have a lower gross margin and a higher operating margin than company-operated stores. Under the licensed model, Starbucks receives a reduced share of the total store revenues, but this is more than offset by the reduction in our share of costs as these are primarily incurred by the licensee. 

In our licensed store operations, we leverage the expertise of our local partners and share our operating and store development experience. Licensees provide improved, and at times the only, access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of these arrangements, we sell coffee, tea, food and related products to licensees for resale to customers and receive royalties and license fees from the licensees. We also sell certain equipment, such as coffee brewers and espresso machines, to our licensees for use in their operations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to follow our detailed store operating procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to employees in company-operated stores. For Starbucks® and Teavana™ stores within certain international markets, we also use traditional franchising and include these stores in the results of operations from our other licensed stores.

5
Licensed store data for the year-ended October 1, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) China/Asia Pacific store data includes the transfer of 133 Singapore company-operated retail stores to licensed stores as a result of the sale to Maxim's Caterers Limited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.

Consumer Packaged Goods

Revenues from sales of consumer packaged goods comprised 8% of total net revenues in fiscal 2017. Our consumer packaged goods business includes both domestic and international sales of packaged coffee and tea as well as a variety of ready-to-drink beverages and single-serve coffee and tea products to grocery, warehouse clubs and specialty retail stores. It also includes revenues from product sales to and licensing revenues from manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks-, Seattle’s Best Coffee- and Tazo-branded products through licensing agreements.

6
Foodservice

Revenues from foodservice accounts comprised 2% of total net revenues in fiscal 2017. We sell Starbucks® and Seattle’s Best Coffee® roasted whole bean and ground coffees, a selection of premium Tazo® teas, Starbucks VIA® Ready Brew, and other coffee and tea-related products to institutional foodservice companies that service business and industry, education, healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants, airlines and other retailers. We also sell our Seattle’s Best Coffee® through arrangements with national accounts. The majority of the sales in this channel come through national broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, U.S. Foodservice and other distributors.

Product Supply

Starbucks is committed to selling the finest whole bean coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with our rigorous coffee standards, we control coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging and the global distribution of coffee used in our operations. We purchase green coffee beans from multiple coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards for our many blends and single origin coffees.

The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the “C” coffee commodity price. Both the premium and the commodity price depend upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions. Price is also impacted by trading activities in the arabica coffee futures market, including hedge funds and commodity index funds. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies.

We buy coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure an adequate supply of quality green coffee. Price-to-be-fixed contracts are purchase commitments whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore the price, at which the base “C” coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. For most contracts, either Starbucks or the seller has the option to “fix” the base “C” coffee commodity price prior to the delivery date. For other contracts, Starbucks and the seller may agree upon pricing parameters determined by the base “C” coffee commodity price. Until prices are fixed, we estimate the total cost of these purchase commitments. Total green coffee purchase commitments as of October 1, 2017 were $1.2 billion, comprised of $860 million under fixed-price contracts and an estimated $336 million under price-to-be-fixed contracts. As of October 1, 2017, none of our price-to-be-fixed contracts were effectively fixed through the use of futures contracts. All price-to-be-fixed contracts as of October 1, 2017 were at the Company’s option to fix the base “C” coffee commodity price component. Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through fiscal 2018.

We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of green coffee. We believe, based on relationships established with our suppliers, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

To help ensure the future supply of high-quality green coffee and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates eight farmer support centers. The farmer support centers are staffed with agronomists and sustainability experts who work with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality, yields and agronomy support to address climate and other impacts.

In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated stores. We believe, based on relationships established with our dairy suppliers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient fluid milk to support our stores is remote.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks® stores include tea and a number of ready-to-drink beverages that are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items, are purchased from national, regional and local sources. Our food program continues to develop, and we expect the amount of food products purchased to impact our operations. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and distribution operations. We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers and manufacturers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient amounts of these items is remote.

7
Competition

Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are specialty coffee shops offering premium and artisanal products and experiences. In almost all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business. We believe that our customers choose among specialty coffee retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and convenience, as well as price. We continue to experience direct competition from large competitors in the U.S. quick-service restaurant sector and the U.S. ready-to-drink coffee beverage market, in addition to well-established companies in many international markets. We also compete with restaurants and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores.

Our coffee and tea products sold through our Channel Development segment compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through grocery stores, warehouse clubs, specialty retailers, convenience stores and U.S. foodservice accounts and compete indirectly against all other coffees and teas on the market. 

Trademarks, Copyrights, Patents and Domain Names

Starbucks owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in other countries throughout the world. Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Starbucks Reserve, Tazo, Seattle’s Best Coffee, Teavana, Frappuccino, Starbucks VIA and La Boulange are of material importance. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.

We own numerous copyrights for items such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. We also hold patents on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, Starbucks has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including “Starbucks.com,” “Starbucks.net,” “Tazo.com,” “Seattlesbest.com” and “Teavana.com.”

Seasonality and Quarterly Results

Our business is subject to moderate seasonal fluctuations, of which our fiscal second quarter typically experiences lower revenues and operating income. Additionally, as Starbucks Cards are issued to and loaded by customers during the holiday season, we tend to have higher cash flows from operations during the first quarter of the fiscal year. However, since revenues from Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when cash is loaded onto the Card, the impact of seasonal fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings is much less pronounced. As a result of moderate seasonal fluctuations, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Employees

Starbucks employed approximately 277,000 people worldwide as of October 1, 2017. In the U.S., Starbucks employed approximately 185,000 people, with approximately 175,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in support facilities, store development, and roasting, manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations. Approximately 92,000 employees were employed outside of the U.S., with approximately 89,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support operations. The number of Starbucks employees represented by unions is not significant. We believe our current relations with our employees are good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Channels includes various business groups, including channel development and certain emerging brands, including Seattle's Best Coffee and Evolution Fresh. 

8
Howard Schultz is the founder of Starbucks Corporation and has served as executive chairman since April 2017. Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board of directors since Starbucks inception in 1985, and in January 2008, he reassumed the role of president and chief executive officer. He served as chief executive officer until April 2017 and served as president until March 2015. From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz also held the title of chief global strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he served as chairman of the board and chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president. From January 1986 to July 1987, Mr. Schultz was the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and president of Il Giornale Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company. From September 1982 to December 1985, Mr. Schultz was the director of retail operations and marketing for Starbucks Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company.

Kevin R. Johnson has served as president and chief executive officer since April 2017, and has been a Starbucks director since March 2009. Mr. Johnson served as president and chief operating officer from March 2015 to April 2017. Mr. Johnson served as Chief Executive Officer of Juniper Networks, Inc., a leading provider of high-performance networking products and services, from September 2008 to December 2013. He also served on the Board of Directors of Juniper Networks from September 2008 through February 2014. Prior to joining Juniper Networks, Mr. Johnson served as President, Platforms and Services Division for Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide provider of software, services and solutions. Mr. Johnson was a member of Microsoft’s Senior Leadership Team and held a number of senior executive positions over the course of his 16 years at Microsoft. Prior to joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Johnson worked in International Business Machine Corp.’s systems integration and consulting business. 

Rosalind G. Brewer has served as group president, Americas and chief operating officer since October 2017, and has been a director of Starbucks since March 2017. Ms. Brewer served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sam's Club, a membership-only retail warehouse club and a division of Walmart, from February 2012 to February 2017. Previously, Ms. Brewer was Executive Vice President and President of Walmart's East Business Unit from February 2011 to January 2012; Executive Vice President and President of Walmart South from February 2010 to February 2011; Senior Vice President and Division President of the Southeast Operating Division from March 2007 to January 2010; and Regional General Manager, Georgia Operations, from 2006 to February 2007. Prior to joining Walmart, Ms. Brewer was President of Global Nonwovens Division for Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a global health and hygiene products company, from 2004 to 2006 and held various management positions at Kimberly-Clark Corporation from 1984 to 2006. She serves as the Chair of the Board of Trustees for Spelman College and formerly served on the Board of Directors for Lockheed Martin Corporation and Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Cliff Burrows joined Starbucks in April 2001 and has served as group president, Siren Retail, since September 2016, which includes the Starbucks ReserveTM Roastery & Tasting Rooms, Starbucks Reserve brand and products and Princi operations. Mr. Burrows also oversees Global Coffee and the Teavana brand. From July 2015 to September 2016, he served as group president, U.S. and Americas. From February 2014 to June 2015, he served as group president, U.S., Americas and Teavana. From May 2013 to February 2014, he served as group president, Americas and U.S., EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Teavana. Mr. Burrows served as president, Starbucks Coffee Americas and U.S. from October 2011 to May 2013 and as president, Starbucks Coffee U.S. from March 2008 to October 2011. He served as president, EMEA from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice president and managing director, U.K. prior to April 2006. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in various management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture and housewares retailer.

John Culver joined Starbucks in August 2002 and has served as group president, International and Channels, since October 2017. From September 2016 to October 2017, he served as group president, Starbucks Global Retail. From May 2013 to September 2016, he served as group president, China, Asia Pacific, Channel Development and Emerging Brands. Mr. Culver served as president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific from October 2011 to May 2013. From December 2009 to October 2011, he served as president, Starbucks Coffee International. Mr. Culver served as executive vice president; president, Global Consumer Products, Foodservice and Seattle’s Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009, and then as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice from October 2009 to November 2009. He previously served as senior vice president; president, Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific from January 2007 to February 2009, and vice president; general manager, Foodservice from August 2002 to January 2007.

Scott Maw joined Starbucks in August 2011 and has served as executive vice president, chief financial officer since February 2014. From October 2012 to February 2014, he served as senior vice president, Corporate Finance and as corporate controller from August 2011 to October 2012. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Maw served as chief financial officer of SeaBright Insurance Company from February 2010 to August 2011. From October 2008 to February 2010, Mr. Maw served as chief financial officer of the Consumer Banking division of JPMorgan Chase & Co., having held a similar position at Washington Mutual Bank prior to its acquisition by Chase. From 1994 to 2003, he served in various finance leadership positions at General Electric Company. Mr. Maw serves on the Board of Directors of Avista Corporation. 

9
Paul Mutty joined Starbucks in September 1998 and has served as senior vice president, interim general counsel since August 2017. From July 2011 to July 2017, he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary. Mr. Mutty previously served as vice president, assistant general counsel from June 2002 to July 2011 and as director, corporate counsel from September 1998 to June 2002. Mr. Mutty has previously led the Starbucks legal department's EMEA region, Channel Development, Starbucks Law & Corporate Affairs business operations, global commercial, litigation, regulatory, technology, real estate and licensing legal teams. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Mutty served as executive vice president and general counsel for SP Investments, Inc., from May 1996 to September 1998. Mr. Mutty was formerly with the Seattle law firm of Riddell, Williams, Bullitt & Walkinshaw, where he was a corporate attorney from 1986 to 1996 and was a partner from 1992 to 1996.

Global Social Impact

We are committed to being a deeply responsible company in the communities where we do business. Our focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, reducing our environmental impacts and contributing positively to communities around the world. Starbucks Global Social Impact strategy and commitments are integral to our overall business strategy. As a result, we believe we deliver benefits to our stakeholders, including employees, business partners, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of Starbucks Global Social Impact strategy and commitments, please visit www.starbucks.com/responsibility.

Available Information

Starbucks 10-K reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.starbucks.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance policies, code of ethics and Board committee charters and policies are also posted on the Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at investor.starbucks.com. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.

Item 1A. Risk Factors